Oliver Burkeman argues that a pessimistic worldview is the key to success and personal contentment in his The Guardian article “Happiness is a Glass Half Empty.” Burkeman begins with delineating the modern mantra that to be successful, one must be “Be positive, look on the bright side, stay focused on success.” Using a multitude of examples, such as that of the Museum of Failed Products, he disproves this idea. He compares this mantra to his claim that “the true path to contentment is to learn to be a loser,” and proves his mantra by pointing to examples of Japanese and greco-roman philosophy. By arguing for a pessimistic worldview, Burkeman provides the reader with a method of achieving success and to prepare oneself for the inevitability of failure.
	Oliver Burkeman begins by describing, then arguing against, the modern mantra that one must stay focused on success and positivity. He provides the example of the “Graveyard of Capitalism,” the Museum of Failed Products. It exhibits thousands upon thousands of products “withdrawn from sale after a few weeks or months.” The curator, Carol Sherry, informs the reader that all of the products on display are created by “real people who sincerely want to do their best, and then, well, things happen.” Optimism does not protect one from unforeseen obstacles.” Optimism and blind focus on the end product may even blind oneself from lessons learned from past failures. “Product developers are so focused on their next hoped-for success…” that they have been “surprised to discover products that their own companies had created, then abandoned.” Over “90% of products fail,” and product designers and marketers must confront it - but don’t. Not only is the modern approach of focusing on “things going right” inefficient, it may be emotionally damaging and may even hurt one’sown chances of success.
	After warning against blind optimism, one must contend with the fact that 90% of products fail, and so one must be comfortable and familiar with failure. He provides the example of a trial conducted by the German psychologist Garbielle Oettingen involving a group of “mildly dehydrated subjects”. One group visualized “positive fantasies about the future,” while the other did not. While the first group “experienced a significant reduction in their energy levels,” they were not motivated to hydrate themselves. They “have confused imagining success with having already achieved it.” This experiment proved that positive visualization is counterproductive to success - or at least the perception of it.
Finally, Burkeman advocates for a “”negative path” to happiness.” Burkman advocates a philosophy akin to Stoicism in its place. Stoics acknowledge that “things will not turn out for the best,” and by imagining one’s worst fears, they “turn bottomless, nebulous fears into finite and manageable ones”.  This generates a “vastly more dependable calm” as opposed to the decrease in motivation optimists may suffer from. By providing an example from greco-roman philosophy, Burkeman disproves then provides an effective alternative to blind focus on success.
Oliver Burkeman compares two differing worldviews on achieving success: optimism and stoicism. He then reminds the reader of the inevitability of failure with the example of the Museum of Failed Products, a vast repository of consumer products that failed to sell. He then informs the reader of the “Positivity Bias,” which is the fact that one with “positive fantasies about the future” will eventually lose motivation to achieve their own goals, informing the reader of the decreased efficiency of optimism. Finally, Burkeman invokes an example from greco-roman philosophy as a replacement for optimism: Stoicism. The famous Stoic Seneca “actively dwelled on worst-case scenarios instead,”, which serves to harden himself from failure. By comparing two competing worldviews, he instructs the reader on how to achieve success.

