In J M Coetzee’s book Disgrace, the professor David Lurie uses his position and race in Apartheid era South Africa to make inappropriate sexual advances towards a black student. Using his position of power and influence, he tries to start a relationship with a prostitute, which she rejects. Desperate, he uses his position as a professor to pressure a student into an inappropriate relationship, leading to his downfall. 

First, Lurie uses his power as a client to intrude into the private life of a prostitute, Soraya. Although their relationship is purely transactional, David finds himself to be attracted to her. Their relationship ends when he sees Soraya with her children, shattering his ideas of starting a family with her, and making him realise that to her, he is just another client. Coetzee writes: “He walks on, turns back, passes Captain Doregos a second time. The three are seated at a table in the window. For an instant, through the glass, Soraya’s eyes meet his.” (USE A P#) Shortly after, Soraya leaves him. Using a private detective agency, Lurie tracks her down and tries to call her. Lurie’s use of a private detective oversteps the boundaries and exploits his position of power, even if it’s unsuccessful.
Second, Lurie uses his position of power as a professor to force his student, Melanie, to enter into an inappropriate relationship. He asks: “I live just nearby. Can I invite you in for a drink?’A pause, cautious. ‘OK. But I have to be back by seven-thirty.’” At his home, he tries to seduce her, and tries to make advances. “She does not want a liqueur, but does accept a shot of whisky in her coffee. As she sips, he leans over and touches her cheek. `You’re very lovely,’ he says. ‘I’m going to invite you to do something reckless.’ He touches her again. ‘Stay. Spend the night with me.’”His words show a possessive attitude towards her. Lurie uses his position as a professor to make inappropriate advances to his students. 

Thirdly, Lurie tries to continue his relationship with Melanie by falsifying her attendance and marks. The change in their academic relationship causes damage to his teaching quality. He tries to slip  messages into his teaching: “He pauses. Blank incomprehension. … It may be in your better interest to throw a veil over the gaze, so as to keep her alive in her ar-chetypal, goddess like form”.   With his power as a professor, David Lurie’s inappropriate sexual advances go beyond the private confines but into the classroom.

In conclusion, David Lurie uses his position as a professor to make completely inappropriate sexual advances to his student, as well as uses a private detective to obtain private information about a prostitute with whom he has a relationship. David Lurie fully abuses his power as a professor to exert influence and to control the actions of others.  
