In the novel Into The Wild by Jon Karaker, Christopher, a deranged and misguided youth, seems to possess some qualities of a hero. Throughout his journey to his death, he leaves behind a positive impression on the people who he meets, as well as those who help him. To them, he is kind, smart, and brave. While these are qualities of a hero, thanks to his actions we know he is not one. His selfish and cruel actions towards his parents, and blatant disrespect for the land, prove that he is fallible at best.

While Christopher is kind to the people who he meets on his journey, he is cruel and completely lacks compassion for his parents. He appears to be selfish, impulsive, and irrational. He impulsively donates his college fund and savings to Oxfam, selfishly cuts off contact with his parents, and irrationally decides to go on some sort of aesthetic pilgrimage to Alaska. He leaves without informing his parents, greatly worrying his father and mother. This is in stark contrast to the kind young man that the people who met Christopher saw. The suffering that he inflicts on his parents rules out any chance that he is a hero.

Secondly, while he is judged to be smart by the people whom he meets, he lacks the ability to separate truth from fiction. His idealisation of Alaska and being the master of his own destiny all stem from the writings of Jack London, a drunkard who lived a sedentary lifestyle, and died at the age of 40. Many of his other heroes exhibited similar hypocrisy: “Tolstoy, despite his famous advocacy of celibacy, had been an enthusiastic sexual adventurer as young man and went on to father at least thirteen children, some of whom were conceived at the same time the censorious count was thundering in print against the evils of sex.” (85) If Christofer had actually looked into his literary heroes, he would have realised that perhaps his Alaska fantasy wasn't such a good idea. Thus, the basis of his ‘heroic philosophy’ is fundamentally flawed. 

In some ways, Christopher’s death reflects the hero's journey. He is transformed from a scholar with a pampered background, to a reinvented wanderer named “Alexander Supertramp'' who,  after a period of wandering around, sets off on a suicidally unprepared foray into an Alaskan provincial park. Nick Jans’s scathing letter about Mcandles perfectly summarizes what kind of “hero” he was. “I have no sympathy for him… screwing up because they lacked the requisite humility. It's a matter of degree.” (50) McCandles’s death is  accurately described as “simply one more dreamy half-cocked greenhorn who went into the country expecting to find answers to all his problems and instead found only mosquitoes and a lonely death.” Because of Mcandless’s death, society as a whole has benefitted from an effective cautionary tale about the dangers of fetishizing the “rough and rugged wilderness”.

In conclusion, it is disrespectful to  call Christopher Mcandless a hero. In fact, he is best described with the handy visual aid that is provided at the bottom of this essay. At best, Mcandless can be described as an idealist, or as someone who couldn't accept that nature won’t suddenly become like an idealized version of a Disney princess movie. At worst, he is a bombastic narcissist who believed he could take on anything that nature could throw at him. Regardless, one shouldn’t view him as a hero. 

