The cultivation, consumption, and trade of beer and wine have had a profound influence on the development of human society, as emphasized in “A History of the World in 6 Glasses” by Tom Sandage. Beer allowed for the development of pottery, allowed Mesopotanians to develop bread, and allowed Mesopotamian society to fight off famine. The development of beer allowed it to be used as both a nutritious food, a clean source of water, and a form of currency in Egypt, in addition to being of great cultural and religious significance. In Greece and Rome, wine was a universal staple consumed by all social classes, and was a prominent tool for religious ceremonies. Alcohol has been used for a variety of purposes throughout history.

	Beer, one of the earliest forms of alcohol, was used extensively in 4000 BCE Mesopotamia for a variety of purposes. Beer was thought to be a driving factor in the development of watertight containers and pottery, which were instrumental in the creation of beer. Many archeologists infer “that bread must therefore be an offshoot of beer making,” allowing bread to be stored in government facilities in times of famine. Beer in Mesopotamia must also have fulfilled an important social function as it does today. It was even used as currency and payment: “Sumerian temple workforce were issued a sila of beer a day—roughly equivalent to a liter.” (35) Beer allowed for the development of pottery, allowed Mesopotanians to develop bread, and allowed Mesopotamian society to fight off famine.

	Egyptian beer was an important food; the development of beer allowed it to be used as both a nutritious food, a clean source of water, and a form of currency in Egypt, in addition to being of great cultural significance. In Egyptian literature, it “was mentioned more times than any other foodstuff,” (27) and “One Egyptian tale even credits beer with saving humankind from destruction” (27) from a ferocious sun goddess. In both Egypt and Mesopotamia, it was seen as an “ ancient, god-given drink that underpinned their existence, formed part of their cultural and religious identity, and had great social importance,” as it was drunk by all social classes. Like in Mesopotamia, beer was used as currency, and it was even used to pay taxes. As beer was much weaker in 4000 BC than it is today and it was made from boiled water, beer was both a clean source of hydration and a nutritious drink. In both Egypt and Mesopotamia, beer served a variety of purposes.

	Like in Mesopotamia and Egypt, alcohol was of great religious significance and was a key staple in both Rome and Greece. Wine was drunk by all social classes, with date-palm wine being consumed by the lower classes and grape wine for the higher classes. They often drank wine at  special philosophical meetings known as  symposiums. Many important philosophers placed heavy emphasis on the symposium, with Plato arguing that “drinking with someone at a symposion is in fact the simplest, fastest, and most reliable test of someone's character.” When Rome “displaced the Greeks as the dominant power in the Mediterranean basin,” (54), they adopted many of the Greek customs, including their drinking habits. Wine became an important part of Roman religion, as wine was vital in Christian rituals.

	Beer and wine had a profound influence on human society, especially in Mesopotamia, Egypt, Rome, and Greece. Beer allowed Mesopotamian society to develop bread, and allowed Mesopotamian society to fight off famine. The development of beer allowed it to be used as both a nutritious food source, a clean source of water, and a form of currency in Egypt, in addition to being of great cultural and religious significance. In Greece, Rome, Mesopotamia, and Egypt, alcohol was a universal staple consumed by all social classes and was a tool for religious ceremonies. Its benefits were even praised by many greco-roman philosophers, including the likes of Plato. Without beer and wine, these societies must have been very different.

