One flew over the cuckoo's nest, by Ken Kesy has sometimes been criticized for its depiction and treatment of race and gender. While some of this is unfair criticism, there is good reason for some of the things that some may find offensive today. The depiction of people of other races and Nurse Ratched, both of which are very controversial portrayals today, is based on portrayals of women and ethnic minorities that can be considered negative or stereotyped. 

First of all, One flew over the cuckoo's nest was written back in a time when blacks were denied many of the same rights as whites, and the traditional role of women as housekeepers was considered a cultural norm. In fact, when the book was written, it was in response to what is now considered barbaric practices in mental institutions, like lobotomy and electroshock therapy. At the time when it was written, the Civil Rights movement, drug culture and feminism were all happening in the zeitgeist. Ken Kesly’s book One Flew Over the Cuckoo's nest contains elements from all of these, both good and bad. This when read from a modern day standpoint, makes the book controversial for some. 

One flew over the Cuckoo's nest deals with sensitive subjects such as racism and sexism. Specifically, the reader can see the unflattering depiction of Nurse Ratchet’s black orderlies as a point of contention. The depiction of the black boys as the minions or sadistic underlings of a white woman might offend some people today.  Some might even consider it to be racist, specifically over how Ratched believed that blacks clean the wards better than Whites. “All of them black as telephones. The blacker they are, she learned from that long dark row that came before them, the more time they are likely to devote to cleaning and scrubbing and keeping the ward in order.” This implies that blacks are only good for cleaning, and somehow equates that to their skin colour. As this book was published in 1962, from a modern day perspective, it is easy to see why this is considered racist. 

Gender also plays a large role in the controversial nature of this book. An easy example of this would be Billy Bibbit. His boyish state results from a fear of women, especially women who are in power. This emasculating effect is not just limited to Bibbit, who is especially afraid of Ratchet. Rrenches, the head nurse of the ward, uses her emasculating effect against her patients. As summarised by Mcmurphy, “No, that nurse ain’t some kinda monster chicken, buddy, what she is is a ball-cutter. I’ve seen a thousand of ’em, old and young, men and women. Seen ’em all over the country and in the homes - people who try to make you weak so they can get you to toe the line, to follow their rules, to live like they want you to.” Ratched exists to represent the  emasculation of men in society. The depiction of a powerful woman causing men to become emasculated can suggest that the book is sexist. One could argue, however, that people are focusing too much on the sexism aspect instead of the cruelty against her patients, especially when she causes Billy to kill himself. 

In conclusion, thanks to the contents of this story, it is easy to characterise some parts of this novel as racist and sexist. While the book was written almost 58 years ago, it isn’t so simple as brushing off these complaints as merely being views from the time where it was written. We need to understand why such portrayals were part of the accepted societal and literary landscape at the time. However, I still see this book as merely being a good story. 
