In the 1999 novel Disgrace by J.M Coetzee, the character of David Lurie makes use of his power as a teacher, a client, and a white man in Aparteid-era South Africa. Due to the nature of Soraya’s profession, David is in a position of social dominance of her. David possesses power over Melaine due to his job as a teacher. Finally, he displays power over the character of Petrus due to his race. Lurie utilizes his positions of power in order to cross the boundaries that most wouldn’t cross, eventually leading to his downfall.
	David uses his power as a client in order to invade the privacy of a prostitute. After their purely transactional relationship ends, he “telephones the agency,” (Chapter 1, page 6) but they refuse to allow him to contact her. Shortly after Soraya leaves him, David hires a private detective agency, who tracks her down. David uses this information to contact her, but he is rebuffed. Using his position as a client with the prostitution agency and the private detective, he oversteps the boundaries of a prostitute. Due to his position of power in society, he is able to overstep social boundaries. 
	Using his position as a respected professor, he forces a student to enter into an inappropriate relationship. This relationship crosses interdepartmental and social boundaries. David asks Melaine to “I invite [her] in for a drink,” but she doesn’t feel comfortable declining his offer because he’s an authority figure in her life. He uses his position to make inappropriate advances. He stalks Melanie using his powers as a teacher, when “he extracts Melanie Isaacs’s enrolment card and copies down her personal details.” (Chapter 3, page 1) When Melaine withdraws from his class, he makes use of his position as a professor to continue his relationship by falsifying her attendance and marks and by stalking her using the personal information he has access to. By abusing his position, David attempts to enter into a relationship, which precipitates in his downfall.
	David attempts to use his position as a white man in order to threaten his daughter Lucy’s black coworker Petrus. David threatens to call the police on him due to his relationship with the Pollux. “Petrus is not an innocent party, Petrus is with them,” he tells Lucy. However, he is unable to convince Lucy to fire him. David also hires a private investigator in order to pursue a prostitute. Both the threat of police and private investigators are services that would likely be denied or taken less seriously had he not been a white man during the era of Aparteid. Using his position as a middle-class white man in Aparteid-era South Africa, David is able to harass others and continue his prejudices.
	David Lurie abuses his position as a white, middle-class professor in Apartied-era South Africa in order to exert influence onto others. Using the resources of a well-off member of the middle class and a client, he intrudes into the private life of a prostitute. Lurie uses his position as a university professor to extend his inappropriate relationship with a student, leading to the loss of his job and public disgrace. Finally, David manipulates his position as a white man to threaten Petrus. David abuses his position in order to harass and invade the boundaries of others.

