Fashion is a puzzling topic. Fashion appeals to certain teens for a multitude of reasons. The most common is a sense of exclusivity. People like to feel unique, and the purchase of an expensive limited-run jacket allows them to feel that. Others view their appearance as an extension of themselves and will attempt to use clothing to reflect that. Finally, peer pressure is an important part of why fashion is an important part of certain teen’s identities. Teenagers like to mimic their peers, allowing them to feel like they fit in to a certain group.

A sense of exclusivity is the main reason why some teenagers purchase clothing. The possestion of limited-run shirts, jackets, and hoodies allows one to feel special despite deficiencies in other areas. By dressing similar to their peers, a teenager may be able to feel more of a sense of belonging. By mirroring others, an adolescent can mirror their close friends. A good-looking piece of clothing may also allow one to feel more confident. 

Adoseclents preoccupied with their appearance also see their clothing as a reflection of their identities. One may dress a certain way to give off a certain impression. A teenager going to a job interview will dress differently than a teenager going to school. Someone may choose a certain article of clothing in order to express a certain emotion. A brand’s clothing can be purchased in order to link the brand’s image of affluence with the wearer.

The effects of this inane preoccupation on one’s personal appearance can be felt in environmental damage and in the economies of developing countries across the world. The extremely lucrative industry of “fast fashion” encourages consumerism and motivates consumers to constantly purchase new clothing to keep up with the latest trends, resulting in enormous waste as the clothing no longer socially relevant is eventually thrown away, causing water pollution. Cheap materials like Nylon requires enormous amounts of water and is hard to break down. The low margins of fast fashion encourages companies to push down wages and cut corners.

An individual can express their identity, affluence, and self-esteem through their clothing. Thus, it is understandable why the fast fashion industry has continued to exist and expand despite it’s severe impacts on both the environment and the economy.
