In Joseph Heller’s novel Catch-22, Snowden’s death is a motif that provides readers with insight on Yossarian’s motivations, character, and moral development. Yossarian relives Snowden’s last moments multiple times throughout the novel, giving insight to his morals and mindset. Snowden’s death is revealed to be the cause of Yossarian’s moral development into a cynical captain who mostly cares about his own self-preservation.

	The circumstances of Snowden’s death are eventually revealed detail by detail as he recalls the event at random times. “'Where are the Snowdens of yesteryear?'” (23) he asks in an educational session. When Yossarian is in the hospital for a stab wound in Chapter 41, all the details of the event are revealed. Hungry Joe has died, reminding Yossarian of Snowden, a gunner and a, “vaguely familiar kid who was badly wounded and freezing to death in the puddle of harsh yellow sunlight splashing into his face through the side gunport” (338). Yossarian attempts to treat Snowden’s wounds until, “Snowden's insides slithered down to the floor in a soggy pile” (338). This event results in his awareness of his own mortality, that. “Man was matter … Drop him
out a window and he'll fall. Set fire to him and he'll burn. Bury him and he'll rot, like other kinds of garbage” (338). The traumatic experience of Snowden’s death is the cause of Yossarian’s views towards mortality.

	Snowden’s death made death seem all the more visceral to Yossarian, and he became determined to preserve his own life at all costs. The death of Snowden eventually culminates in the main moral conflict of the novel. Although Yossarian is horrified at the thought of his own death, he is almost equally concerned for the fate of his squadron members. Yossarion is offered an “odious” deal: Yossarian is “sen[t]  home  a  hero” (328) with the condition that he must “say nice things about [Cathcart and Korn] here and back in the States.” Then, the men of the squadron would be “easy enough to discipline and control” and no one would question Cathcart and Korn’s treatment of the squadron members. Yossarian has to choose between his own well-being at the expense of the troops and the fate of the soldiers.

	The death of Snowden provides the reader with insight into the mindset of Yossarian, his moral development, and finally sets up the main moral conflict Yossarian is presented with. Snowden’s death made death seem all the more visceral to Yossarian, and he became determined to preserve his own life at all costs. The memory of Snowden’s death is the catalyst for the moral dilemma Yossarian is presented with when he is offered Korn and Cathcart’s deal.
