In Ernest Hemmingway’s book, The Old Man And The Sea, the main character Santiago is an unlucky fisherman. On the eighty fourth day of not catching any fish, he catches a massive marlin, which he struggles against  for three days before he catches it. Unfortunately, his catch is completely picked to the bone by sharks on his way back to port. While it looks like Santiago has been defeated, the reader is required to believe that Santibago has only been destroyed. 

Santiago doesn’t fit the definition of being defeated. According to Oxford Languages, one of the definitions of  defeated is “demoralized and overcome by adversity.” Santiago has always dreamed of lions on an african beach, symbolising his pride and love for fishing. “After that he began to dream of the long yellow beach and he saw the first of the lions come
down onto it... he waited to see if there would be more lions and he was happy.” Even during and after his ordeal with the marlin, he still dreams about the pride of lions. This is significant because it indicates that his pride is unharmed by the ordeal, and he is therefore undefeated
Santiago’s body has been destroyed by his struggle with the marlin, but his spirit has not been defeated.

 In his conversation with Manolin after he has returned, he mentions the injuries that he has sustained. ““You get your hands well old man.” “I know how to care for them. In the night I spat something strange and felt something in my chest was broken.”“Get that well too,” the boy said.” While his body is greatly damaged, Santiago still has the will to continue fishing. In fact, it is in the same conversation where Santiago and Manolin are planning their next fishing trip. Along with showing how he refuses to be defeated, this also shows a level of stubbornness and will in Santiago, which was shown earlier in his struggle with the marlin. 

One major theme of The Old Man And The Sea is that a person can be destroyed but not defeated. In this respect, ‘destroyed’ refers to when an individual is physically damaged by an event, while defeated suggests mental withdrawal. The villagers' treatment of Santiago and his reaction is evidence of this. When he is labeled as “Saleo”, his eyes are still ”cheerful and undefeated.” Even during his struggle with the marlin, when his hands are being shredded by rope, his spirit remains undefeated. Lamenting the poor taste of raw fish and regretting his poor planning, he says: “I will never go in a boat again without salt or limes.” After his catch is stripped to the bone by sharks, he refuses to be defeated, and goes about planning his next trip with Manolin. Throughout the book the reader is reminded that Santiago is an example of how someone can be destroyed but not defeated. 

In conclusion, there is overwhelming evidence that Santiago has not been defeated. He is devastated by the ridicule of the other fisherman, while his body was damaged in his struggle with the merlin, and when his catch was stripped to the bone by sharks. He is physically destroyed, but still is undefeated, which is the ultimate thematic purpose of the novel.
