The novel Atlas Cloud by David Mitchel is presented in a unique anthology format of six interconnected stories across time and space, in order to create an overarching timeline. All stories are set in wildly different places, but all six narratives share both thematic and literary connections to the previous narratives. They all share the themes of death, deception, and reincarnation. However, other intertextual characteristics are also utilized in order to bridge the stories into an overarching narrative. 
The concept of death and reincarnation is explored in the six short stories. Autua, from “The Pacific Journal of Adam Ewing,” is to be executed but is rescued by Adam Ewing. Ewing is poisoned by Dr.Goose in order to test his philosophy of “eat or be eaten.” In “Letters from Zedelghem,” the musician Froboiser kills himself after he completes his Cloud Atlas Sextet and a woman rejects him. Death and reincarnation serve a purpose in Cloud Atlas: They provide a bridge for the reader to different periods in time and space. The reincarnation of Froboiser as Louisa connects the story of “Half Lives” to “Letters from Zedelghem. The similar fates of Adam Ewing, Luisa Ray, and Timothy Cavendish bridge their individual stories together. Death and reincarnation link the six scenarios together.
Lies, corruption, and deception are prominent themes in Atlas Cloud. Each protagonist is subject to lies and corruption. Ewing is nearly killed by Goose, and is forced to live with the corrupt crew of the ship. Ayrs co-opts Froboiser’s work. Sixsmith investigates a corrupt nuclear power plant, but is killed in a suspicious manner. It is hinted that Luisa is killed by agents working for the power plant. With Cavendish, by having an affair with his brother’s wife, he betrays his brother. Lies and corruption thematically connect the stories together by showing their ubiquity across time and spaceOther intertextual characteristics occasionally link the stories to each other. The fabricant Somni-451 inspired the god of the tribe of the valleymen. Occasionally, Mitchell breaks the fourth wall. Cloud Atlas is the name of the composition Froboisher makes. “Half Lives” and “Letters from Zedelghem” share a direct connection. Sixsmith is told by Froibisher that he will “meet again.” In “Half Life,” Sixsmith is befriended by Luisa, a reincarnation of Froibisher. Sonmi-451 directly inspired God Sonmi, the god of the Vallyemen. Luisa Ray hears “Cloud Atlas Sextet,” the final work of Froboisher in “Half Life 2.” Not only are the stories connected thematically, they are also connected directly. This serves to elevate the theme of reincarnation.  
In “Cloud Atlas,” the six stories are connected both thematically and directly in order to create an overarching narrative. The initial four stories are all plagued by the themes of deception, death, lies, and corruption. Mitchel weaves together six stories in varying periods across time and space. They are set in vistas including post-apocalyptic Hawaii, Korea in the far future, the eighteenth-century Cayman Islands, by different protagonists. Mitchel successfully utilities thematic and direct similarities in six tales in order to tell an overarching narrative about connection.

