	The final quotation “Yet what is any ocean, but a multitude of drops?” in David Mitchel’s novel Cloud Atlas literally means that the ocean would not be the same without the impact of each individual drop. The world is composed of billions of individuals, but each individual has its own impact on the world. The most obvious proof of this interpretation is the structure of the novel. The novel is an anthology of stories across space and time. Although each protagonist lives on different continents, in different decades, or even hundreds of years apart - each protagonist is affected in some way or another by the actions of the previous protagonist. Another relevant argument is the recurring theme of popular movements. Adam Ewing joins the Abolitionist movement, while Sonmi-451 joins the Union. These people are miniscule drops among many, but are able to leave their own impacts in their own societies.
	David Mitchel argues that although the world is composed of billions of human beings, the world would not be the same without each individual. Mitchel provides the metaphor of an ocean. Ewing’s life will amount “to no more than one drop in a limitless ocean,” but “yet what is any ocean but a multitude of drops?”
 The format of his novel provides substance to his interpretation. Each protagonist in Cloud Atlas affects the next protagonist - although they may be separated by hundreds of years and live across different continents,  without the previous protagonist, their stories would not be the same. The god of the primitives in “Sloosha's Crossin' an' Ev'rythin' After” would not exist without the actions of Sonmi 451. You may feel miniscule, as you are just a single person in millions, but you will have your own impact on the world. We see this in how the novel portrays the effects of each of the protagonist’s actions. Somni-451’s attempt to assist the Union initially fails - but it is implied that her Declarations had a hand in “The Fall” and the creation of the post-apocalyptic society in “Sloosha's Crossin' an' Ev'rythin' After.” 
Many protagonists attempt to impact the world in Cloud Atlas as individuals by joining popular movements. Somni-451 writes her Declarations in an attempt to inspire the many to rise up against the corporcracy system. Adam Ewing pledges to become an abolitionist and to commit his life to the freedom of slaves. Luisa Rey, a journalist, fights to uncover wrongdoing in a famous power plant in order to write a hit piece. These protagonists fight to have their own impact on the world, and these popular movements are an example of an impact one may have on the world as an individual.
Finally, the meaning of the final quote of Cloud Atlas is that a single person can have their own impact on the world at large. The literal meaning behind “Yet what is any ocean, but a multitude of drops?” is that an ocean is composed of individual drops, but the ocean would not be the same without each drop. An ocean without the drops would be a dry wasteland. Likewise, our world is composed of billions of individuals - each with their own impact on the world. Somni-451’s attempt to assist the Union initially fails - but it is implied that her Declarations had a hand in “The Fall” and the creation of the post-apocalyptic society in “Sloosha's Crossin' an' Ev'rythin' After.” 



In the course of the story “The Fall and the Near,” the main character moves from pessimism to optimism. First, he passes by a pastoral cottage in which lives a mother and her two daughters, who waves at her when he drives past. The engineer sees many horrible events in his line of work, and idealises this family. He retires, and decides to visit. However, this pastoral image of a family and a cottage which he structures his worldview around is shattered when he decides to visit the cottage. The cottage and area surrounding it is tattered and worn, and the inhabitants are hostile and unwelcoming. The engineer shifts from optimism to pessimism as he realises this image is not idealistic as it seems.
