
In Orwell’s essay “Shooting an Elephant,” the narrator’s experience of shooting an aggressive elephant is a metaphor for colonialism. The dying elephant is a metaphor for Burma itself, as it was absorbed into the British Empire slowly and gradually. The narrator’s experience as a policeman whose actions were molded by native onlookers gives a glimpse into the head of an imperialist - and specifically on how people with power must act differently when they have an audience. Ultimately, the story reflects Orwell’s opinions on colonialism and imperialism by __________.

	The description of the elephant may have been a metaphor for the slow and painful way that Burma was absorbed into the British Empire. Burma was initially not of much interest to the British, and neither was the elephant. The elephant was resting in a paddy field and seemed peaceful to the narrator, who felt that _________ . The elephant was shot three times by Orwell, and took several painful hours to die. There were three Anglo-Burmese wars, and it took a prolonged 62 years for Burma to become a British colony as the Konbaung dynasty fought bitterly to preserve their independence. The slow, agonizing death of the elephant is a metaphor for Burma’s process of becoming a British colony.

	Orwell was forced into shooting the elephant due to his societal status - he is a white man in a colonial territory, and he must act like one. Although Orwell bitterly hates the local Burmese, he must impress them as to not be faced with ridicule or laughter from his supposed underlings, as well as to project an image of power and authority. Although he becomes doubtful of the need to shoot the elephant, he reasons that he must because “the crowd would laugh at [him]...., every white man’s life in the East, was one long struggle not to be laughed at.” The imperialist may think that he is in charge, but it is really his subjects that control him. This is demonstrated through the interaction between Orwell’s policeman, and the native inhabitants. 

The narrator’s experience as a policeman gives the reader the insight that people with power must act differently when they have an audience. Although in theory the imperialist has all the power, an imperialist must play the role of an imperialist. No matter how little the imperialist cares for their subjects, they will always care about how they are viewed by those they consider as beneath them and for this reason, they must always be “trying to impress” the natives. This colours every action they may make.  Like Orwell, they must become “only an absurd puppet pushed to and fro by the will of those yellow faces behind.” 

In Orwell’s essay “Shooting an Elephant,” the experience of Orwell as a police officer in British-controlled Burma is an analogy for colonialism in general. The aggressive elephant Orwell is driven into shooting three times is a metaphor for Burma and the three Anglo-Burmese wars. Orwell’s experiences give the reader insight into the effects and mindset of an imperialist, and the “real motives for which despotic governments act.” As those with power must care about how their perceived underlings see them, this colours their actions.

