In the novel Cloud Atlas, author David Mitchell connects six separate stories and weaves them into a coherent narrative. Using shared elements across all six narratives, the reader can interpret and understand the relationships between these stories. Death, lies, and reincarnation are themes that connect all six stories.

Death and killing is a common theme between all stories. The main characters of The Pacific Journal of Adam Ewing, Letters from Zeldghem, Half Lives, and The Ghastly Ordeal of Timothy Cavendish all share the possibility of their death in a variety of ways. Adam Ewing, Luisa Ray, and Timothy Cavandish face death at the hands of others, which they escape from. Robert Frobisher however, kills himself after he finishes his Cloud Atlas Sextet. The way that each character interacts with death helps to interlink the different narratives. 

All characters in these stores share similar characteristics, relating to the idea of reincarnation. Author David Mitchell himself has stated that every character in the narrative is a reincarnation of their previous lives, and possesses memories as well as physical characteristics. All characters in Cloud Atlas share the same birthmark. Mitchell writes:“Luisa shunts these aside to get a clearer view of a birthmark between her shoulder blade and collarbone… But it is undeniably shaped like a comet. The mirror mists over.” (Half-Lives, p57) These characters also experience deja vu in between the different stories. For example, when Robert Frobisher’s Cloud Atlas Sextet is played at the end of Half Lives, Ray believes that she has heard it before: ““Where have I heard it before?” The young man shrugs. “Can’t be more than a handful in North America.” “But I know it. I’m telling you I know it.”” (Half Lives, p192). The reincarnation and deja vu of the different characters connects the different narratives.

Lies, deception, and corruption are all themes shared between the first four narratives. Every character in Atlas Shrugged is subject to these themes. Ewing is betrayed and almost killed by Goose, Frobisher’s work is almost co-opted by Ayrs, and Ray, while investigating the Seaboard Company, is almost killed. The narrative approach to Cavendish’s story is more light hearted, as he betrayed his brother in the past, leading to his confinement in Aurora House. These shared themes of lies, deception and corruption between the four stories help to connect the different narratives. 

In conclusion, author David Mitchell uses common themes of death, lies, and deception, as well reincarnation, to weave together six different narratives. The similar themes and experiences between the different characters allows Mitchell to create a coherent and easy to understand story. 
