Into the Wild does not merely describe the death of Christopher McCandless. It writes about similar people who met similar fates to satisfy their love for nature. These people all share a common trait, a distaste for authority, a draw towards nature, and a quest for “Ultimate Freedom”. Jon Karakner compares the death of Mcandless to other adventure seekers who befell a similar fate. 

Mcandless heads into the wild because he wants to explore a life without possessions, people, and responsibility. He romanticizes the wild and believes that it is untainted by the corruption of the modern world. The comparisons made in Into The Wild between Mccandless and others who died for a similar cause, all show that most have similar character traits. They often overly romanticize nature, idealising the discomfort and the suffering that it brings. Ruess’s letter to his friend symbolises this. “For two days ... I refuse to be driven out of the woods” McCandless’s romanticisation of Alaska is similar to the romanticisation that cost Ruess’s life. Both adventure seekers’s deaths can be put down to their romanticization of nature.

With interviews with McCandless’s family, Jon Karakner paints a picture of Christofor Mccandless as a pensive, intelligent young man who has a history of defying authority. This is similar to other adventure seekers, such as Gene Rossalini, a gifted student and athlete who decided to conduct a unique anthropological experiment, by living in the wild like a primitive. While Rossellini killed himself, they are both extremely similar. Tired of society, McCandless heads into the wild to achieve emotional rebirth. Like Rossellini, McCandles comes to terms that he can't continue in the wild. While Rossellini kills himself, McCandless finds himself trapped in by rivers. Both die. 

Perhaps the greatest unifying factor among McCandless and those before him is the impulsiveness and overconfidence. Nick Jans’s letter summarizes this perfectly. “His ignorance … is what killed him” Like previous victims of Alaska, McCandless was hopelessly underprepared. Lacking a map or any way to contact anyone for help, it is no wonder that he died. Similar to Carl Mccunn, who entered the wild but forgot to arrange for a flight back, and Waterman, who tried to climb Denali but decided to go with almost no preparation. These adventure seekers, who just like McCandless went to Alaska to fulfill their alaskan fantasies, all died thanks to their lack of preparation. 

In conclusion, these adventurers all share a common trait. They overly romanticize nature, have an excessive desire for personal freedom, and wish to escape from the corruption of modern society. Perhaps they would find the words of MIT professor turned terrorist Ted Kaczynski to their liking. “The Industrial Revolution and its consequences have been a disaster for the human race.”

