

In One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest,  The Chief is a classic example of an unreliable narrator. He is mentally ill, and somehow believes that the world is controlled by a machine called the Combine. As such, he is unfit to be a reliable narrator. 



First, it is clear that Chief Bromdem is mentally ill. He is admitted to the mental institution as a deaf and a mute, but it is clear that he suffers from other disorders as well. Chief Bromden has frequent hallucinations, perhaps from the pills that he is made to consume. He frequently hallucinates about fog, especially when distressed. “he becomes hysterical and starts hallucinating a thick fog, cold snow coming down. Bromden can hear Nurse Ratched rushing towards him through the thick of it, and he’s pinned down and sedated. “ Brombden’s hallucinations prevent him from being a reliable narrator, as they call into question any of the observations that he makes in the novel. 

Second, Chief Bromden most likely suffers from some form of post traumatic stress disorder, which I believe is why he was institutionalized in the first place. Chief bromden is both deaf and mute, both of which can be effects from PTSD. When Bromden was a child, his tribe's land was sold to make place for a hydroelectric dam. He watched his father become pressured into selling, all while he couldn’t do anything. This experience, combined with his time in the Army, leads to the PTSD which he suffers from. Bromden’s past experiences in life make him unusable as a narrator, as he is not objective or trustworthy. 

Third, the main character believes in dangerous conspiracy theories. Chief Bromdem thinks that the world is ruled by “the combine”, a machine that controls society. He thinks that the mental institution that he inhabits, is where the Combine sends people to be fixed. “Across the room from the Acutes are the culls of the Combine’s product, the Chronics. Not in the hospital, these, to get fixed, but just to keep them from walking around the streets giving the product a bad name.” When a patient is cured, Bromden later claims: “A success, they say, but I say he’s just another robot for the Combine and might be better off as a failure, like Ruckly sitting there fumbling and drooling over his picture.”  It is unfortunate that his misguided belief in his conspiracies makes an unreliable narrator.  His unreliability makes it difficult for the reader to fully trust their observations and intuition about characters - making it difficult to enjoy. 


In conclusion, thanks to Chief Bromden’s mental state, he is an extremely unreliable narrator. This, compounded with his isolation from the outside world thanks to his institutionalisation, leads him to come up with outlandish conspiracy theories. 

