College should be free. Free college would (hypothetical tense) ill boost the economy by widening the workforce. Free college will improve society by increasing equality and social mobility. Free college has it’s caveats, but they can be mitigated with non-financial barriers to entry. College will boost the economy by decreasing the national debt, and widening the workforce, and improvingimprove society by increasing equality.
	Free college will boost the economy. Governor Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, who recently proposed a plan to make college free for all state residents, predicted that “Iin the long run, we’ll see improved economic growth, improved outcomes for New Mexican workers and families and parents.” More educated students would lead to a better paid workforce. A better paid workforce would lead to more money spent on the economy. More college degrees would lead to more citizens who are able to open new businesses, leading to an increase in jobs. 44 million Americans collectively hold more than $1.5 trillion in student debt, which is 1.5 trillion dollars not spent on the economy. A more educated workforce and a decrease in debt will lead to economic growth.
	Free college will lead to a better society. A more educated society is more informed, and isare less likely to become radicalized. Free college will eliminate the financial barrier for minorities, leading to greater equality for ethnic groups who have been traditionally less financially well- off. A student body who does not need to worry about how they will pay for tuition will be able to focus more on their studies. A decrease in debt, coupled with an and an increase in median income, would decrease social unrest, creating a stable society. Free college will lead to a more informed populace, greater social stability, and greater equality.
	Free college has it’s caveats, but they can be carefully mitigated. A common argument is that free college will be expensive. Taxes on a growing economy caused by a more educated populace will pay for the cost. New Mexico plans to use taxes from a growing oil industry to pay for their free college program. Another common argument is that free college will be taken advantage of by students who do not intend to study -- something that can be mitigated by a minimum GPA for students to attend colleges. Free college has some disadvantages, but these disadvantages can be mitigated.
	College should be free for all. Free college will lead to a more informed workforce, widening the economy and creating a larger, more educated workforce. Free college will lead to a better, more informed, more stable, and more equal society. Free college has it’s caveats, but they can be mitigated easily. Bachelor’s degrees are not as unprecedented as it might seem --- it would be a return to the free college programs of the 1970’s. Even Lincoln proposed a similar “People’s University” program. College without a financial barrier would ultimately be beneficial to society.
