In Tennessee Williams's play A Streetcar named desire, symbolism and metaphor take a very prominent role. Bathing takes a prominent role throughout the play, representing Blanche's attempt to cleanse her past, and for Stanly to calm his violent temper. Throughout the play, the reader is constantly reminded of this motif.

Blanche’s bathing represents her attempt to cleanse herself of her past. Rather than be candid about her past, she camouflages it from herself and from the people that she meets. Stella tells Stanley: “She’s soaking in a hot tub to quiet her nerves. She’s terribly upset.” (Scene one, p24) Blanche’s bathing serves to cleanse herself of her past, but also to hide her past from others. 

Stanly’s bathing serves to calm his vivacity and violent temper. After beating Stella, he showers, and feels remorseful, calls for Stella to return.: “[Finally, Stanley stumbles half dressed out to the porch and down the wooden steps to the pave-ment before the building. There he throws back his head like a baying hound and bellows his wife’s name:” (Scene three p53) Stella returns to Stanley, further cultivating the motif of the calming effects of bathing. 

Both of these motifs invoke similar themes, the calming and cleansing effects of bathing. Blanche’s bathing seeks to calm and cleanse herself from her past. Stanly uses bathing to quench his smoldering anger after the poker game. While the purpose of bathing is different for these two characters, with Blanche using it to abscond from her past, and Stanley’s showering to debilitate his anger and to uncork his decorum. 

In conclusion, Stanley and Blanche’s bathing both serve similar purposes. The bathing motif is core to A Streetcar Named Desire and symbolises the mental decline of Blanche, as well as Stanley's violence nature.. 
 



In the end, which of the three characters would you say is the play's 'hero'? Is there even a hero? If not, with whom is the audience intended to identify?

In A Streetcar Named Desire, I do not believe that there is a hero. Instead, I believe that the audience is intended to identify with Blanche. Throughout the entirety of the story, the reader focuses on Blanche. From her arrival at her sister's house, to when she gets taken away by the doctor, the reader is viewing the story from her perspective. As a result, the reader will most identify with Blanche.