
Miller uses his own experiences to inform his views in his TED talk “What really matters at the end of life?”. Using his own experiences as a patient and a doctor, Miller informs the audience that a patient’s priorities change when they are near death. When they are near their expiration date, patients tend to become irrational, as proven by Miller’s anecdotes. He uses anecdotes from a palliative care facility he runs in order to contrast its superiority in the welfare of the soon to be deceased. He then uses his own experience with the American healthcare system in order to highlight it’s deficiencies and the attitudes of a patient. 

Miller uses his own experiences as a patient to influence his views. He references his experience as a burn patient wearing a nurse smuggled a snowball for him. After a poor life decision at a Sophomore Thanksgiving party, Miller becomes a long term burn patient in the American healthcare system. He describes an instance where a nurse gave him a snowball on a snowy day. As a bedridden patient who could not leave his windowless room, this type of friendliness was incredibly meaningful. This anecdote serves as an example of what the American healthcare system lacks, what usually becomes “a stolen moment,” and is a core part of what informs Miller’s views on palliative care.

The speaker’s own experiences are the reason for his knowledge of the needs of dying patients. While “everyone who goes into healthcare really means well,” the healthcare system ultimately “does not serve.” Hospitals “are places for acute trauma and treatable illness.” “They are no place to live and die; that’s not what they were designed for.” Without his experience as a long term burn patient, he would not have these views on palliative care.


Finally, Miller uses his experience with his patients to inform his views on the shifted perspectives of those nearing their best-before date. He gives examples, like the woman who started smoking “to feel her lungs filled while she [still] has them”. He speaks of Frank, a prostate cancer patient at Zen Hospice, who goes to “raft down the Colorado River” rather than “more chemotherapy coursing through his veins.” These experiences assist in forming his view that the dying and soon to be mortally challenged will prioritize “comfort; feeling unburdened and unburdening to those they love; existential peace; and a sense of wonderment and spirituality” over their own survival.

Miller’s perspective on death is affected by a poor life decision and the resulting experience in the healthcare system, and his over thirty years of work in the Zen Hospice Project, a palliative care facility.
