In “Julius Caesar,” Brutus and Mark Antony give their speeches with different motives. Brutus tries to deflect blame from himself and the other conspirators while tarnishing Caesar’s reputation. He utilizes his high reputation with the Roman populace to win them over. Mark Antony seeks to do the opposite. He seeks to reassure the Roman public that Caesar was not ambitious and to blame Brutus and the other conspirators in a subtle way. Antony uses sarcasm and contrast in order to turn public opinion against Brutus. Mark Antony eventually becomes successful, causing them to drive the conspirators out of Rome and influencing the future civil war in the favour of Antony.

Brutus uses his reputation with the roman population and a perceived honesty to convince the Roman public. He says that “Not that I love’d Caesar less, but that I love’d Rome more.” His noble reputation is what temporarily wins the public over; his position as Caesar’s close advisor grants him authority. They want to “Give him a statue with his ancestors,” and even want to “Let him be Caesar.” His speech has a profound effect on the Romans in the forum. However, Mark Antony’s speech is proven to be more convincing.

Mark Antony uses sarcasm and contrast in order to turn public opinion against Brutus. He complements both Brutus and Caesar in order to contrast them. He informs the public of Caesar’s many deeds as proof of his love for the people of Rome. Caesar “brought many captives home to Rome / Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill,” and in his final will, he granted his inheritance to the people of Rome. He sarcastically repeats that Brutus is “an honourable man,” the only defence he gives of Brutus and the conspirators. This contrast convinces the public that Caesar held the moral high ground.

Mark Antony is more successful in swaying the crowd. At the end of the scene, the plebeians in the forum chant “Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill! Slay! / Let not a traitor live!” and are now willing to “We'll hear ... follow … [and] die with” Mark Antony. Antony is successful in healing Caesar’s reputation, eventually leading to his victory in the following civil war. At the end of the speech, Brutus goes from a honourable nobleman to a traitor, and Caesar goes from an ambitious traitor to a benevolent martyr.

Mark Antony and Brutus utilize different strategies in their eulogies in order to convince those at the funeral to follow them. Brutus uses his position as Caesar’s close friend in order to convince the public that the assisination was of noble intention. Mark Antony contrasts Brutus’s perceived nobility and honesty with the many, many, benevolent acts of Caesar. He is successful in winning over the public, causing them to drive the conspirators out of Rome and influencing the future civil war in the favour of Antony.
