Garret Hardin in his article “Lifeboat Ethics: the Case Against Helping the Poor” presents his argument well but does not take into account demographic transition into account while talking  against immigration. Due to the limited “carrying capacity of our land” and environmental degradation, the United States must reject immigrants or the environment will collapse due to the increased load. His depiction of the world outside America and Europe is condescending at best, and his ideas are dangerous in that Harden and others are able to and have used them to support nationalist, isolationism, and racial discrimination. Hardin presents his case well, but his argument is severely flawed.

Hardin’s arguments against immigration are based on the false idea that population growth is infinite and grows at a constant rate: “Outside our lifeboat, let us imagine another 210 million people …  who are increasing at a rate of 3.3 percent per year. Put differently, the doubling time for this aggregate population is 21 years.” He does not take into account the Demographic Transition Model, a concept in sociology taught in tenth grade Social Studies. According to the Demographic Transition Model, a nation’s total population growth rate cycles through five stages. In the first stage, birth rates are high and the overwhelming majority of the population is young. As a nation develops and industrializes, fertility rates fall significantly below their replacement rates. Death rates become higher than birth rates. The population grows older and the population declines. Social programs such as pensions may collapse as the workforce retires. 

	In order to maintain a workforce of working age that is able to pay taxes, stimulate the economy, and fund social programs such as socialized healthcare and the Candian Pension Plan, many nations, such as Canada, and most of Europe have resorted to accepting immigrants. However, this is still is not a sustainable strategy. As third world countries continue to develop, their workforces will shrink too. Governments that subscribe to Hardin’s ideology will find themselves with a very dire situation: a shrinking population, a shrinking workforce, and a shrinking economy. Albeit for different reasons, Japan is in a similar conundrum. Over 40% of their population is over the age of 65 and this is expected to increase to 60% by 2050.

	Hardin’s ideas are not only flawed, they can also be used to justify racial discrimination. His lifeboat analogy is condescending. He portrays the United States as one of the few beacons of safety in the inhospitable ocean that is the rest of the world, and that the rest of the world will stay that way. “ In the ocean outside each lifeboat swim the poor of the world, who would like to get in, or at least to share some of the wealth,” he declares. Hardin’s metaphor is dangerous, it can be and has been used to support racial discrimination and anti-immigrant sentiment. Garret Hardin himself was a nationalist and eugenist, and has been recognized by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a white nationalist. If the United States is a beacon of safety in an inhospitable ocean, why not take pride in your “small safety factor” and it’s ethnicity? If the preservation of the world’s finite resources is of paramount importance, why not restrict women’s reproductive rights?

	Garret Harden’s metaphor is fatally flawed despite its solid presentation. His predictions of immigrants exhausting the food supply is unlikely to come to pass. Immigration has even been used by many nations to extend the workforce of their aging populations. Hardin’s lifeboat analogy is dangerous, for it has been used by Hardin and others to use environmental sustainibility to justify racial discrimination and the restriction of women’s repoructive rights. In the past decades, improvements in renewable energy have somewhat mitigated the threat of finite energy. Harden’s ideas should be rejected. Let us all cooperate and commit to 

 
