In the play “Death of a Salesman, the motivations of the four central characters are linked. Biff and Happy want to be successful businessmen, like who they perceive their parents to be. However, they are both considered failures by their father, WIlly, who attempts to emulate the success of his role model David Singleman. He pursues the American Dream, the idea that anyone in America can become successful if they work hard. Linda Loman, the mother, tries to fill the role of a mother in a nuclear family. Although he is under financial troubles, he tries to upkeep the facade that he is a successful businessman. 
	Biff is seen as a failure and underachiever by his father. However, the reason he is seen as such is due to the fact that Willy broke his illusion of success and the American Dream. He discovers WIlly’s mistress, causing him to lose his belief in his father’s image of a perfect facade and causing him to lose his ambitions and lose faith in his father’s goals for him. Instead, he seeks to live a pastoral life. He wants to buy a ranch, and “raise cattle, use our muscles.” He wants to move away from Willy’s vision of success and become independent.
	Happy Loman is Biff’s younger brother. He is willing to accept his father’s image of himself. He fully believes in his father, and seeks to become like him, preventing his escape from his father’s ambition for him. However, this results in Happy inheriting Willy’s extraordinary skill of self-deception. He deludes himself into believing his father as a success, and vows to move to New York. He is doomed to fall into the same trap as his father. He is motivated by the fact that he tries to impress his father.
	Willy, the father, tries to become successful by following the American Dream. He believes that success is tied to how likeable he is. His greatest desire is embodied in the name of his son, Happy. His favorite mantra, “The jungle is dark, but full of diamonds,” describes the facade of success he tries to upkeep to his family. He can not see that he is a failure, seeming to be on the verge of a mental breakdown, because of his desire to fulfill the American Dream, like his neighbor David Singleman, and his brother Ben. Linda tries to fulfil his role of the mother in the archetypal nuclear family. She notices Willy’s declining mental state, but she is ignored by her husband and is unable to help.
	The motivations of all four characters are linked together. Linda, Biff and Happy’s motivations are rooted in Willy’s. Biff wants to become independent, while Happy wants to impress his father. Linda tries to be supportive of Linda, Biff, and Happy, and desires to help and support her family. However, Willy is incapable of accepting her support due to the fact that he believes himself to be a successful man. 

