The novel Into the Wild by John Krauker and the short story “To Build a Fire” by Jack London depict the indomitable violence and strength of nature in similar yet different ways. In both stories, Nature is depicted as a vicious and uncaring force, and protagonists succumb to death after their own arrogance. However, the antagonists of both stories are not Nature, but themselves. Due to the fact that both deaths are preventable, the two stories teach the reader of the importance of preparation.

In both Into the Fire and “To Build a Wild,” the protagonists succumb to their own arrogance. Both believe that they can conquer the wild, and are eager to endure the wilderness, but underestimate the threat and succumb to death in the bleak wasteland of the Arctic circle. They ignore advice from the locals. McCandless ignores the advice of Gallien, and the protagonist of Into the Fire ignores the words of the old man living at Sulfur Creek, showing clear contempt for those more experienced than him, saying that “Those old men were rather womanish,” and makes fatal mistakes. In “To Build a Wild,” McCandless shows contempt for his own future, saying that “I don’t want to know what day it is or where I am.” Both protagonists, due to their large egos, succumbed to the wilderness, proving that nature is uncaring.

Both characters die in a similar way. Despite his pious devotion to the ideals of Jack London and Throeau, McCandless starves to death at the hands of a harsh and uncaring natural world. The protagonist of Into the Fire dies due to his optimism and his disdain for those with more experience. Both protagonists pass away due to their pride and misplaced confidence in their own abilities. Both McCandless and the unnamed man die without regret. The man falls into “the most com-fortable and satisfying sleep he had ever known,” while McCandless dies “apparently without regret.” The deaths of both protagonists demonstrates that nature is without compassion. Nature will kill both those with fanatic devotion and prideful contempt for itself.

Both characters suffer preventable deaths. McCandless purposefully enters the vicious Alaskan wilderness without a plan, adequate supplies or the necessary tools, believing that he has the knowledge to survive. He expectedly starves to death as a result. The man in “To Build a Fire” purposefully enters the cold night alone to prove himself, then freezes to death. However, both characters accept their fate. The man contemplates that “You were right, old fellow. You were right,” while McCandless writes a peaceful journal entry. This proves that Nature is vicious. However, the conflict of the story is between the protagonists and their own hubris. The cause of their death is not only Nature, but their prideful beliefs in their own abilities.

The death of both characters teaches important lessons. All can learn from both tragedies. It teaches the more intelligent members of society that detailed planning is required for anyone to survive future expeditions into the wilderness. McCandless believes he can live in harmony with Nature, but the young man believes he can conquer it. Nature is not the antagonist of either story, it merely amplified the hubris of either character. The overarching message of both stories is that nature is incredibly dangerous, both to pious ideologues and self confident animal abusers, and that one should always be prepared.
