In Albert Camus’s The Stranger, the main character of Meursalt suffers a revelation before his execution. Meursalt’s revelation while awaiting execution is a genuine revelation, and he is not simply feeling fear over his impending death. He is at a breaking point when he snaps at the priest, and he is finally no longer socially isolated to what is happening around him. He begins to see his life as having a past, present, and future, rather than focusing on just the physical present, and then makes peace with his death.

Meursault accepts his inevitable death and begins to look forward to it. He undergoes a kind of existentialist revelation, and “lays [his] heart open to the benign indifference of the universe.” He finds a purpose in order to find fulfillment and hope, and to be hated by society. He wishes that “on the day of my execution there should be a huge crowd of spectators and that they should greet me with howls of execration.” Meursault ponders his situation and encounters a kind of revelation, wherein he finds that there could possibly be extrinsic meaning to his life, in place of the intrinsic meaning he’d been lacking. 

Meursault’s turning point is his time in the prison cell, culminating in the discussion with the priest. For the first time, he is no longer isolated from the world around him. He is finally reactive rather than passive, a new development. A new emotion is exposed to him: irritation and revulsion. The idea of a pardon or an afterlife would run against his acceptance of the inevitable death. In the prison, he gains the new ability to analyse not only the material present but his past and future as well, contrasting with the extreme lack of self-awareness in the previous parts of the story. He sees no difference between dying then or twenty years in the future, and becomes content and satisfied with his fate. This revelation speaks to the idea of existentialism that says ‘if there is no existence, then essence doesn’t matter’

	Meursault is not feeling fear over his pending death, and he has been given the opportunity to ponder upon his life and societal situation. In fact, Meursault is seemingly unable to feel the fear of death, and even views it as the only certain thing in life. He even feels the opposite -- Meursault derives a feeling of calm and understanding from his death rather than from fear.

	Meursault’s revelation at the end of The Stranger happens as a result of his acceptance of his unavoidable death, whether it is now or twenty years in the future. He finally finds a purpose in his purposeless life, which is giving the crowd of observers a satisfying show in his execution This external revelation comes from his revulsion towards the priest because the idea of a pardon or an afterlife would run against his acceptance of the inevitable death - in other words, it would create something else for him to worry about, beyond death. He is repulsed by the priest’s inability to see this. Meursault comes upon a revelation after he accepts his death.


