In the novel Disgrace by J.M. Coetzee, there exists a clear line between the oppressor - Lucie’s neighbors and Lurie - and the oppressed - the women around them. Disgraced English professor and part-time cad David Lurie utilizes his power as a paying customer, a respected professor and a white man in Aparteid-era South Africa to oppress others. Due to the nature of Soraya’s profession, David is in a position of social dominance over her. David possesses power over Melaine due to his job as a respected professor. Finally, he displays power over the character of Petrus due to his race. Lurie utilizes his positions of power in order to cross the boundaries that most wouldn’t cross. This oppression eventually leads to his downfall, as he becomes the oppressed when he is driven off his daughter’s farm by Petrus
David uses his power as a client in order to oppress through invading the privacy of a prostitute. After their purely transactional relationship ends, he “telephones the agency” (Chapter 1, page 6) but they refuse to allow him to contact her. Shortly after Soraya quits, David hires a private detective agency to find her address. David uses this information to contact her, but he is rebuffed. Using his position as a client with the prostitution agency and the private detective, he oversteps the boundaries of a prostitute. Due to his position of power in society, he is able to oppress a prostitute, which also demonstrates his lack of respect for the working-class. 
	Abusing his position as a respected professor, he oppresses and coerces a student to enter into an inappropriate relationship. This relationship crosses interdepartmental and social boundaries. David invites Melaine  “ in for a drink,” but she doesn’t feel comfortable declining his offer because he’s an authority figure in her life. He uses his position to make inappropriate advances. He stalks Melanie using his powers as a teacher, “he extracts Melanie Isaacs’s enrolment card and copies down her personal details.” (Chapter 3, page 1) When Melaine withdraws from his class, he makes use of his position as a professor to continue his relationship and camouflage his act by falsifying her marks and attendance record and by stalking her using the personal information he has access to. By abusing his position, David attempts to enter into a relationship, which precipitates his downfall.
	David attempts to use his position as a white man in order to oppress his daughter Lucy’s black coworker Petrus. He coerces him by threatening to call the police on them. “Petrus is not an innocent party, Petrus is with them,” (Chapter 15, page 10) he tells Lucy. However, he is unable to convince Lucy to fire him. David also hires a private investigator in order to pursue a prostitute. Both the threat of police and private investigators are services that would likely be denied or taken less seriously had he not been a white man during the era of Aparteid. Using his position as a upper middle-class white man in Aparteid-era South Africa, David is able to oppress a black coworker. He uses a dog to attack a mentally slow family member of a coworker, then uses his white status to avoid punishment. However, in the end, the role is reversed. David is violently attacked by a group of black men, a reversal of the previous events. Petrus takes advantage of Lucy’s trauma to marry her, and David is removed from the premises. There is initially a clear-cut divide between the oppressed and the oppressor, but the line is eventually blurred as David’s status as an oppressor has been challenged after being attacked by two black men.
	David Lurie abuses his position as a white, middle-class professor in Apartied-era South Africa in order to oppress and exert a negative influence over others. Using the resources of a well-off member of the middle class and a client, he oppresses by intruding into the private life of a prostitute. Lurie uses his position as a university professor to oppress by extending his inappropriate relationship with a student, leading to the loss of his job and public disgrace. David is violently attacked and his daughter is raped, causing the line between the oppressor and the oppressed to be erased.
