David Sedaris utilizes various techniques in order to present himself as a unique person and writer in his humorous collection of essays Me Talk Pretty One Day. Sedaris shows that he values individuality through the various interactions with teachers and the education system he places focus on. His writing is teeming with deeply sardonic comments, revealing his deadpan sense of humour. Finally, Sedaris chooses to focus on events such as his brief period with Mrs. Samson and his efforts to learn French, revealing his early fascination with language. 

Sedaris presents himself as an individual who has had a strong sense of individuality from a young age. An example of Sedaris’s contempt towards authority is his first essay, “Me Talk Pretty One Day.” When asked to see the speech therapist, his first inclination is that he has done something wrong, quickly thinking of “a list of recent crimes, looking for a conviction that might stick” (1). Sedaris communicates that he has never been able to fit in. “We knocked ourselves out trying to fit in but were ultimately betrayed by our tongues” (4), he says. Not only is he separated from his peers by virtue of his sexuality and his lisp, he also seperates himself from others through his own inflated ego. “It occurred to me that, with the exception of the guitar, [Mr. Mancini] and I actually had quite a bit in common. We were each a man trapped inside a boy's body” (10). He sees himself as an adult, rather than a child. It is evident from his work that Sedaris has a strong sense of individuality.

(2nd paragraph)

David Sedaris’s fascination with language is evident from the very beginning, with his essay “Me Talk Pretty One Day.” After struggling through speech therapy as a child, he accidently discovers the creativity that can be had in language: “tried to avoid an s sound whenever possible. "Yes," became "correct," or a military "affirmative." "Please," became "with your kind permission," and questions were pleaded rather than asked.” This event foreshadows his efforts to pursue fluency in French later in life.




It is evident that Sedaris is a unique person and writer. He values individuality 
