
Barack Obama’s 2004 keynote speech at the Democratic National Convention adheres to Aristotle’s rhetorical situation in order to call for unity. A welcoming message was delivered with emotion using simple words by a charismatic speaker with an inspiring background. It’s text makes heavy use of anecdotes and repetition. Obama is an inspiring speaker whose backstory affirms the belief that America is a “beacon of freedom and opportunity.” Finally, his bipartisan call for unity and hope entices not only his supporters, but his opponents as well.  Obama’s keynote speech is powerful due to its content, its author, and its message.
The 2004 keynote speech utilizes anecdotes and repetition to call for unity and hope. Towards the end of the speech, Obama says, “if you feel the same energy that I do, if you feel the same urgency that I do, if you feel the same passion that I do…. John Kerry will be sworn in as President ….. And a brighter day will come.” He forcefully repeats a simple and emotional phrase, “If you feel,” in order to speak directly to his audience and enforce his conclusion. In the place of numbers and data, he uses anecdotes, such as “a young man named Shamus” who was “heading to Iraq next week.” This anecdote causes the audience to think of their own family and friends in the military. When combined, these anecdotes cause the audience to relate to the speaker. In order to call for unity and hope, Obama makes heavy use of anecdotes and repetition.
The story of Obama’s family mirrors the American Dream. By telling his family’s history, Obama invokes nationalistic sentiments. His family’s stories of success affirm this audience’s preconceived notions of the American Dream, and that America “shone as a beacon of freedom and opportunity.” His affirmation of the American Dream enforces his call for unity, that America as a country “can do better.” He gives his audience the hope that the same country that brought his family from rags to riches can also “make sure that every child in America has a decent shot at life.” Obama’s rags-to-riches backstory combined with his incredible charisma and passion reinforce his message of unity and hope.
Obama’s message was simple, effective, and bipartisan, and spoke to millions across America. “There's not a liberal America and a conservative America — there's the United States of America,” he says. His message of unity, hope, and belief in his country is vague and inoffensive but simultaneously powerful and inspiring. His message of unity was welcome in a country divided after the brutal and deeply controversial Iraq War. A nation with a plummeting international standing embraced Obama’s message of American exceptionalism and affirmation of the American Dream. Obama delivered a message the American voters wanted to believe in.
Barack Obama’s 2004 keynote speech at the Democratic National Convention adhered to Aristotle's rhetorical situation. The speech was delivered by the right person with the right content to the right audience. The nationalism, calls for unity, and message of hope was well received in a country deeply divided after a brutal war. Obama appeals to ethos and pathos rather than logos. His family history gives him authority, and his appeals to national pride evokes the audience’s emotions. Rather than utilizing logos with appeals to facts, Obama effectively invokes ethos and pathos.
