In the play “Death of a Salesman”, the four main characters all have differing motivations. Willy Loman wants to be successful and well liked. His sons, Biff and Happy, both want to be like their father and be successful, but both are considered to be failures by their father. Linda Loman, the mother, is the stable foundation of the family. These four central characters all have different linked motivations, which are the key driving force in their conflict, and in the story. 

Willy Loman, the delusional father of the family, just wants to become successful by following the American Dream. He believes that his success is tied to his likeability, which he extends to his family. He created a facade of success to his wife and children, with his favorite mantra, “The jungle is dark, but full of diamonds”. He cannot understand that he is a literal failure, which negatively impacts his mental health, causing him to have flashbacks to his past. He is so desperate to succeed with his “Willyness”, that he cannot recognize his slanted view of the world. Ultimately, he accepts his failure, and commits suicide, and thereby helping one of his sons start the American Dream with his inheritance. 

Biff Loman is the 34 year old son of Willy Loman. He is seen by his father as a failure and an underachiever. However, Biff’s underachievement only occurred due to his father, when he discovered Willy with a mistress when he was in school, thus breaking his belief in his father and causing him to lose faith in school and in Willy’s ambitions for him. Unlike his younger sibling Happy, Biff is unwilling to believe his father's facade of success. He wishes to leave to the wild west, to work with his own hands to achieve his own success, as revealed in his conversation with Happy: “Sure, maybe we could buy a ranch. Raise cattle, use our muscles. Men built like we are should be working out in the open.” Biff just wants to leave and strike it out on his own.

Happy Loman is the 32 year old younger brother to Biff. Unlike his brother, he is fully willing to accept his father's facade. He ends up fully believing in his father, which causes him to lack any ability to escape from Willy’s vision. Happy embodies the worst parts of Willy, happily and completely believing in the American Dream while sharing Willy’s skill in deceiving himself. Unfortunately, Happy is completely doomed to Willy’s failures, as demonstrated when he makes a vow to go to New York to follow in his father’s footsteps. Linda Loman, the mother in the family, shares aspects from every member of the family. She shares some of the self delusion from Happy and Willy, but she is also able to break away from her husband's delusions of success.She just wants the family to be successful, by carrying out the traditional gender roles. At the start of the play, as Willy appears distressed, she takes off his coat and shoes for him, thereby easing his burden. 


In conclusion, Death of a Salesman’s four central characters all feature linked motivations. Willy is the center of the link, causing Biff to want to go out on his own, while Happy wants to follow in his father's failed footsteps. Linda tries to be supportive among the mess, but Willy’s facade of success disallows him from accepting her support. Ultimately, Willy’s suicide lifts the family from many burdens. 

