The protagonist Yossarian in Joseph Heller's Catch-22 has a variety of unique character traits not typical of a stereotypical hero. He takes a variety of actions that separate him from the characters around him. Yossarian’s ideals and motivations are unique in that he only cares about his own survival. Yossarian is also an outsider due to his willingness for insubordination, ideals, and unique name, and as a result many in his squadron treat him differently.  However, he undergoes a change towards the end of the novel.

	Yossarian’s actions can be considered unheroic. He does not risk his life for America’s cause and sometimes resorts to deception in the name of self preservation. Unlike Havemeyer, who “never takes evasive action” and is thus the most accurate bombardier in the squadron, Yossarian does take evasive action. “[Yossarian] had decided to live forever or die in the attempt, and his only mission each time he went up was to come down alive” (19). He does not care about the mission, only his own life, whereas a conventional heroic figure would be willing to sacrifice himself for everyone else. In order to avoid a dangerous bombing raid to Bologna, he “knocked on wood, crossed his fingers, and tiptoed out of his tent to move the bomb line up over Bologna” (90) in the middle of the night. This shows how he is willing to deceive others and not consider the repercussions of his actions. This one in particular led to the death of Major Decoverly. In the opening scene of the novel, Yossarian is shown to be faking illness in order to be excused from combat: “Yossarian was in the hospital with a pain in his liver…. The pain in his liver had gone away, but Yossarian didn't say anything and the doctors never suspected” (2). Yossarian consciously makes the decision to lie to the doctors and waste everyone’s time even though he was not actually hurt. Although he is a war hero, he does not act as a reader would expect.

	Unlike a typical hero, Yossarian wants to stay alive more than anything. His indefatigable sense of self-preservation can somewhat be justified with the nonsensical bureaucracy of the US Military that obliges soldiers into risking their lives for increasingly illogical reasons. For example, each time the pilots come close to fulfilling the combat mission requirement, it is increased by Colonel Cathcart. “Colonel Cathcart was overjoyed, for he was relieved of the embarrassing commitment to bomb Bologna without blemish to the reputation for valor he had earned by volunteering his men to do it” (pg). In order to augment their own reputations, colonels and generals volunteer their men in the most dangerous missions. This quote also reveals the absurdity of the Armed Forces’ decision to recognize and reward colonels who do nothing but volunteer their squadrons to fulfill dangerous missions. Yossarian’s motivations are another thing that separates him from the others in the squadron, who already treat him differently for his Assyrian name and think that he is insane.

	However, Yossarian does undergo a change. Although he has a strong sense of self-preservation, he still cares deeply for his crew and is deeply affected by the death of the young Snowden. He is constantly reminded of Snowden: “He was wide-awake, and he knew he was a prisoner in one of those sleepless, bedridden nights that would take an eternity to dissolve into dawn. A throbbing chill oozed up his legs. He was cold, and he thought of Snowden.” (336) In the end of the novel, he takes the deal Cathcart offers him and places the squadron over himself. He is offered “go home a big hero if I
say nice things about them to everybody and never criticize them to anyone for making the rest of the men fly more missions.'” (91) He doesn’t take the deal to be sent home a hero and flees.

	Yossarian is an antihero. His ideals and actions can be considered cowardly and unheroic. Yossarian wants to stay alive more than anything. He is willing to deceive others to this end, but towards the end he becomes more willing to value the lives of others when he refuses the deal Cathcart offers him.


Specific moments where you think the author uses "dark humour" and its importance or purpose.

Joseph Heller uses dark humor in the novel Catch-22 in order to deal with serious issues such as the horrors of war, the effects of war on individuals, and religion. He sometimes utilizes a lighthearted tone while describing the horrors of war and the fragility of life. When Snowden is seriously wounded in the climax of the novel, Yossarian reaches into the medical kit to find “a cleanly lettered note that said: 'What's good for M & M Enterprises is good for the country. Milo Minderbinder.'” (336) Yossarian’s seemingly imminent death is contrasted with an incident of war profiteering in a humorous but callous manner: “'Why can't you be a fatalist about it the way I am? If I'm destined to unload these lighters at a profit and pick up some Egyptian cotton cheap from Milo, then that's what I'm going to do. And if you're destined to be killed over Bologna, then you're going to be killed, so you might just as well go out and die like a man.” (93) Even religion is dealt with in a lighthearted manner: “Thank God!” Half-Stoat exclaims. “There is no God!” Yossarian exclaims. Heller utilizes dark humor in order to make certain topics more approachable.
