In William Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, the characters of the play are victims of the fates in a self contradictory way. Omens appear often and are accurate, but the main characters do not heed them. The conspirators do not regard omens and fate when they appear. Fate is proven to exist, and the omens are eventually shown to be correct. It is possible to argue that they have become victims of fate despite their own free will.

Omens are often depicted in Julius Caesar. A soothsayer famously states ““Beware the ides of March” to Caesar, informing him of the date of his assasination. However, he does not heed this warning, even . When he sees the soothsayer on the day of his death, he defiantly replies: “The ides of March are come.” Caesar and the main characters consciously make the decision to ignore the omens.

The omens are in many cases prophetic. The famous “Ides of March” is proven to be true. The night before the assisniation, omens become common: An owl is seen at noon; meteors are seen; volcanic activity is observed. These omens foresee the fates of the conspirators. Caesar’s wife Calpurnia says that in a dream, she sees “blood upon the Capitol;/The noise of battle hurtled in the air,/Horses did neigh, and dying men did groan,/And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets./ O Caesar! these things are beyond all use,/And I do fear them.” (Act 2 scene 3)”  This accurately predicts civil war as a result of the death of Caesar. Fate is a prominent theme in Julius Caesar.

The characters of Julius Caesar are victims of fate in an almost self-contradicting way. Bothaesar and the conspirators to murder Caesar are heavily exposed to omens, but they either interpret them in an incorrect manner, or consciously ignore them. As a result of their free will, the characters fall victim to fate. 

Both Julius Caesar and the conspirators become victims of fate. The conspirators see the omens, but are too late in their planning to heed them. Caesar mis-interprets the omens revealed to him. Both Caesar and the conspirators meet the fate prophesied in the omens as a result of their own free will.


