In the short story “The Fall of the House of Usher”, author Edgar Allen Poe creates suspense and tension by creating an air of uncertainty around the characters, using traditional gothic horror setpieces such as a haunted mansion, and symbols of doubles to create an impression of suspicion and suspense in the reader.  

First, Poe creates an air of ambiguity by restricting the amount of information that the reader has about the main character’s situation. The narrator’s friend’s request is unclear and ambiguous--he does not give the narrator the exact nature of his disease. In addition, the narrator reveals that he knows little about his friend. The narrator reflects: “Although, as boys, we had been even intimate associates, yet I really knew little of my friend.” The reader is left in the dark about the true nature of his friend, and it is later revealed that the Usher family “lay in the direct line of descent.” The entire bloodline is incestuous, further arousing suspision in the reader that something is amiss. The lack of information and suspicious bloodline serve to create an air of suspense and tension in the reader.  

Secondly, Poe invokes traditional aspects of gothic horror, such as the haunted mansion, and the undead. The usage of crumbling gothic mansions like the House of Usher is a traditional part of the Gothic Horror genre. For example, the narrator describes the House of Usher: “There was an iciness, a sinking, a sickening of the heart --an unredeemed dreariness of thought which no goading of the imagination could torture into aught of the sublime.” Poe’s usage of depressing gothic mansions builds suspense and tension in readers familiar with Gothic horror. The usage of the gothic setting climaxes with another familiar gothic horror trope, the undead. Poe writes: “-but then without those doors there DID stand the lofty and enshrouded figure of the lady Madeline of Usher.” Depictions of being buried alive, death, and madness are common among gothic horror. Poe’s use of gothic horror elements such as a crumbling mansion, and being buried alive contributes to the audience's expectations, and leads to the climax of the story. 

Finally, Poe creates an air of uncertainty by having a heavy theme of doubles. The house of Usher is first depicted as a reflection. For example: “I reined my horse to the precipitous brink of a black and lurid tarn that lay in unruffled lustre by the dwelling, and gazed down” The reflection of the House of Usher gives the impression of a vacant face. Another example of Poe’s doppelgangers is between Roderick and Madeline Usher. The narrator comments on the striking similarity between the two, revealing them to be twins. He comments: “A striking similitude between the brother and sister now first arrested my attention.” The premature burial of Madeline Usher and revealing of the two as twins foreshadows the ending of the story in which they simultaneously die in each other’s arms, elevating the tension felt in the reader. 

In conclusion, Poe creates an air of impression of suspicion and tension by restricting the reader's access to information, by using traditional aspects of gothic horror, and by using dopplegangers. The incestuous bloodline of the Ushers, haunted mansion, and symbols of doubles climaxes at the end, when Madeline Usher kills her brother, destroying the Usher bloodline and the mansion itself. 


