In the novel A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man by James Joyce, main character Stephen rebels against his Irish identity. He rebels against the influence of Catholic religion, irish identity, and questions what it means to be Irish. Joyce’s novel follows the development of Stephen Dadalus’s identity by highlighting his development as an artist and his experiences growing up in a devoutly religious Catholic family.  

First, Stephen questions his Irish identity and nationality. Specifically, the role that the Catholic church has in politics when it conflicts with the interest of the Irish people. Stephan hears: “Nobody is saying a word against them, said Mr Dedalus, so long as they don’t meddle in politics.—The bishops and priests of Ireland have spoken, said Dante, and they must be obeyed.—Let them leave politics alone, said Mr Casey, or the people may leave their church alone.” (20) Stephen watches in bewilderment as the adults around him argue about core parts of Irish identity. The conflict between Irish patriotism and the Catholic Church, both core aspects of being Irish, confuses Stephen, causing him to question his core identity as an Irish person. 

Secondly, Stephen questions his catholic religion,causing him to flip flop between a religious fanatic, and constantly going against his religion. Joyce writes: “He wanted to sin with another of his kind, to force another being to sin with him and to exult with her in sin.” (67) On the other hand, Stephen becomes a devout cathiolic after hearing a sermon by Father Arnall. “He flung the blankets from him madly to free his face and neck. That was his hell. God had allowed him to see the hell reserved for his sins: stinking, bestial, malignant, a hell of lecherous goatish fiends. For him! For him!” (91) Arnell’s sermon fills him with guilt, turning him into a model catholic. Stephen flip flops between sin and devotion, causing him to question his religion, eventually causing him to find a middle ground between the two. 

In conclusion, Stephen’s upbringing in Ireland with the strict rules of the Catholic Church causes him to question his identity, eventually creating and shaping his own unique ideas as an artist.    

Other than the Parnell Christmas dinner incident, identify one major incident that affects Stephen emotionally in Chapter 1. How does it change him? Why?

Stephen is pushed into a cesspool and is sent to the infirmary. He comes to terms with his last name, after another person in the infirmary sympathises with him. 
