Cassius utilizes a variety of strategies in manipulating Brutus into treason in Act 1 Scene 2 of William Shakespeare’s play Julius Caesar. Cassius primarily utilizes flattery, especially in relation to his high social status in the Roman Republic. He then takes advantage of Brutus’s almost naive trust in the Roman populace, forging letters and petitions supposedly from regular citizens of the Roman republic, causing him to fall for one of the earliest ever recorded cases of a phishing campaign. Cassius continues to manipulate Brutus throughout acts two and three. Cassius uses flattery and forgery in order to turn Brutus’s loyalty from Caesar to Cassius.
Cassius appeals to Brutus’s ego. He assures him that regular Romans hold him in high regard. However, as “no such mirrors will turn Your hidden worthiness into your eye / That you might see your shadow,” (Act 1 Scene 1) Brutus cannot see this respect that Romans feel towards him. Cassius then attempts to convince Brutus that even his colleagues hold him in high regard, and they too detest Caesar’s rule. He finally attempts to convince Brutus that he is equal to Caesar, as his ancestors founded Rome: “O, you and I have heard our fathers say / There was a Brutus once that would have booked / Th' eternal devil to keep his state in Rome / s easily as a king.” This heritage makes Brutus’s grudge personal, as his ancestor was the one who overthrew the last tyrannical Roman king.
Cassius forges letters expressing suspicions about Caesar, and instructs Cinna to leave them in places for Brutus to find: “Be you content. Good Cinna, take this paper, And look you lay it in the praetor’s chair / Where Brutus may but find it.” (Act 1 Scene 3) He takes advantage of Brutus’s naivety and gullibility to turn Brutus against Caesar, building upon the respect Brutus now believes the Roman populace holds towards him.
Cassius continues to manipulate Brutus throughout Acts 2 and 3 in order to ensure his loyalty stays towards Cassius. In act 2, Brutus’s loyalty completely shifts away from Caesar, guaranteeing his loyalty to Cassius and the other conspirators. When this occurs, Cassius says, “Well, Brutus, thou art noble. Yet I see / Thy honorable mettle may be wrought / From that it is disposed of. Therefore it is met That noble minds keep ever with their likes, For who so firm that cannot be seduced?” (Act 1 scene 2)” Everyone can be manipulated, even one as respectable and honest as Brutus.
Act 1 is the point in which Cassius changes Brutus’s loyalty from Caesar to his conspiracy to commit sedition. Cassius utilizes forward-thinking tactics such as flattery and phishing. He inflates Brutus’s ego by comparing him with the more successful Caesar, and by making reference to his familial heritage. This heritage makes Brutus’s grudge a personal one. The significance of Act 1.2 is that the conspiracy is set into motion, guaranteeing Caesar’s death.
