In the short story To Build a Fire and the book Into the Wild, Nature is depicted as defeating the protagonists, a man and a dog. Throughout To build A Fire, the narrator speaks in third person, describing the various ways that nature conquers the protagonists. Both stories share similar themes, describing nature as heartless and uncaring. These two stores share similar lessons, including the need for preparation, and both share nature as the antagonist.

First, both protagonist’s deaths could have been easily preventable. For example, the man in To Build a Fire decided to travel alone, against the advice of others. Among others, the Old Man at Sulphur Creek advised the man not to travel alone, as it was too cold this time of year. The protagonist ignores him and claims that he is unmanly. As a result, the protagonist freezes to death after falling through ice. Similar to this, Mccandless’s death could have been prevented if he had sought local help, as evidenced by his inability to preserve the moose. ““Maggots already! Smoking appears ineffective. Don’t know, looks like a disaster. I now wish I had never shot the moose. One of the greatest tragedies of my life.” (PAGE REFERENCE NUMBAAA) The man and Mccandless both died because of their hubris and lack of preparation, which also demonstrates that nature is uncaring. 

Mccandless and the Young Man are both killed by nature, as well as by their desires. The Young Man wanted to get to his camp by 6 oclock, which caused  him to rush and not pay attention. In his rush, he fell through ice, is unable to build a fire, and freezes to death. “He should not have built the fire under the pine tree. He should have built it in an open space. But it had been eas-ier to pull the sticks from the bushes and drop them directly on the fire.” Like the Young Man, Mccandless was also killed by his desires - specifically,his obsession to leave society behind. He chooses to leave behind the main trail, as well as decides to not bring a map. In addition, both people ventured into the wilderness for a similar reason: to experience what the wild has to offer. Thanks to their desires, both men die. This shows that nature lacks any form of compassion, further demonstrating that nature is the antagonist. 

Thirdly, Mcandless and the Young Man both enjoy being uncomfortable and suffering. Mccandless purposely went into the wild underprepared and without a backup plan, believing that he had adequate knowledge and the tools needed to survive. As a result, he dies. The man in To Build A Fire entered nature to challenge himself. He purposely goes alone, rejecting the advice of a much more experienced person, and without anyone to help him warm up, freezes to death. In their quest for a challenge, both men die. While both men accept their death, with Mccandless writing a peaceful journal entry and the man saying “You were right, old fellow. You were right.” This teaches the lesson that nature is dangerous, and preparation is required.                              

In conclusion, Into The Wild and To Build a Fire both teach important lessons. The death of Mccandless and the unnamed man both teach the reader the importance of being prepared and	 not expecting that nature will recreate scenes from children's television shows. Nature killed both protagonists, so therefore it is the antagonist. 