In the play Death of a Salesman, the interpretations of the death of Willy Loman differ from character to character. Willy, Biff, and Happy have different interpretations of Willy’s death. To Happy, WIlly was a martyr. His death inspires him into going into Sales. To Biff, he is ‘set free’ by his father’s death. To Biff, Willy was not a martyr, due to the fact that he had “The wrong dreams.” Ultimately, Biff is the correct one, as martyrs are usually remembered positively, and Willy is remembered negatively.

To Biff, Willy was not a martyr. To Biff, Willy was a misguided individual who “had the wrong dreams,” who “never knew who he was,” which was a failure. Although he stands to gain from Willy’s death, Biff pities him. Due to Willy’s death, Biff has broken free from WIlly’s delusions, and is free to pursue his own dreams. From Willy’s life insurance, Biff would be able to pursue his dream of buying a ranch in the West. Noting that his father loved working with his hands, “there’s more of him in that front stoop than in all the sales he ever made,”  Biff believes that Willy should have long since switched careers. As such, Biff does not see Willy as a martyr, but as someone who died for the wrong cause
To Happy and Linda, Willy was a martyr. “'I'm gonna show you and every-body else that Willy Loman did not die in vain,” Happy says on Page ____. In his honor, Happy will go into sales, thinking that  “It’s  the  only  dream  you  can  have.” Linda weeps over Willy’s casket. Although Willy has died, they still believe in his dream. Happy is likely to face the same fate as his father, but for the time being, he believes that his father died honestly, and as a martyr.

Willy believes that his imminent death will make him a martyr. He believes that although he is a failure, his death and the 20,000 dollars in insurance money will help Biff achieve the American Dream. He imagines the hundreds of people from “Maine, Massachu-setts, Vermont, New Hampshire…., Rhode  Island, New York, and New Jersey” attending his grand funeral. Until the end, he is still deluded. However, only his immediate family and his best friend attend the funeral. He believes that his suicide will martyrize him, but instead, the fact that nobody attends his funeral shows that nobody will remember him
The many characters in Death of a Salesman hold different perspectives on Willy’s suicide. Biff believes that Willy is a misguided and pitied character, and does not view him as a martyr. Linda sees his death as the tragic death of her husband. Happy sees him as a martyr, and in his name, he decides to go into Sales. Willy is not a martyr, he is simply a tragic character whose faith in the American Dream led to his death. Martyrs are usually remembered positively, but reactions among his own family are mixed. However, he was able to free his family from the nightmare that they were experiencing, and hoped that they would better find his idea of the American Dream.
