The story of Christopher McCandeless in the 1996 novel Into the Wild by Jon Krakauer adheres to several aspects of The Hero’s journey. He begins in the ordinary world of his elite college, and then crosses the threshold as he cuts off contact with his family and donates his college fund to the OXFAM charity. He undergoes a series of trials and challenges as he travels across America, working in two restaurants, a grain elevator, and a ranch. In search of a revelation, he refuses help from a mentor and plans an idealistic foray into an Alaskan provincial park. McCandless attempted to adhere to the Hero’s Journey as he “tramped” across America, but this does not make him a hero, as his selfish death resulted in depression in his friends and family.

	The beginning of the story of Christopher McCandeless corresponds to the Hero’s Journey. McCandelless’s Call to Adventure is his stiff relationship with his parents, whom he considers strict, proper, and stifling. He leaves the Ordinary World of his elite college, and crosses the threshold into the wilderness. He donates all $24,500 of his college fund to the OXFAM charity, deceives his family, and leaves to travel across America in order to go on “an epic journey that would change everything.” (15) The backstory of Christopher McCandeless seems to adhere to the Hero’s Journey in that he begins in an ordinary world and then crosses into a dangerous and extraordinary world

	McCandelless undergoes a series of trials and challenges as he travels across America. He is lured into working on a ranch for no pay, but escapes by stealing a bike. He works for a McDonalds and hides from his coworkers the fact that he is homeless. He endures gruelling labor at a grain elevator, making friends along the way. He meets Frank, a former alcoholic Vietnam War veteran who saw a son in him. Before his fatal plunge into the Alaskan provincial park, he finds a mentor in Gallien, who warns him that he is almost suicidally underequipped. However, he does not heed this warning. McCandeless undergoes trials and challenges, archetypical of the prototypical hero. However, his ultimate demise nullifies any idea that he fulfils the final requirement of a hero, which is transcendence. 

	McCandelless’s demise corresponds to the death and rebirth stage of the mono-myth. However, he is not supernaturally saved, as he dies of malnutrition over a period of 113 days on a well travelled trail. His demise is directly caused by his idealism. “I don’t want to know what time it is. I don’t want to know what day it is or where I am,” he says. If he had brought a compass or map, he would likely have returned to civilization in the river crossing a mere 3 miles away from his bus. This demonstrates dangerous hubris causing overconfidence. His needless and preventable demise does not correspond to the hero’s journey.

McCandleless’s journey to his death was not romantic and idealistic, it was selfish. Blinded by his ideals of Tolstoy and Rosseau, he abandons his family and takes an ill informed journey into the Alaskan wilderness, greatly worrying his parents. His sudden disappearance leaves his family guilty that they “did not see the signs.” Although many parts of the story of Christopher McCandelless align with the Mono-Myth, he is not a hero, for his completely preventable demise emotionally devastated his family. Frank, the Vietnam veteran who saw him like a son, returned to alcoholism after hearing of his demise. Thus, one should not consider him a hero, only as “one more dreamy half-cocked greenhorn who went into the country expecting to find answers to all his problems and instead found only mosquitoes and a lonely death.” (50) 

