At the end of the novel The Old Man and the Sea by Ernest Hemmingway, Santiago is not defeated as he does not meet the definition of defeat, to be “demoralized and overcome by adversity.” “A man can be destroyed but not defeated,” he says, then proves this to be true, both among the fishermen, and within himself, as he fought to keep the sharks from his catch. At the end of the novel, he is undefeated.
Santiago does not meet the definition of defeat, to be “demoralized and overcome by adversity.” While he has been overcome by adversity, as he has not caught a fish in 84 days and has lost standing with his colleagues, he is not demoralized. The villagers say that he is “definitely and finally salao, which is the worst form of unlucky,” and “made fun of the old man” behind his back. However, he was not demoralized and “was not angry.” His spirit is alive and undefeated, despite his failure to bring a fish in 84 days.
Santiago says, “A man can be destroyed but not defeated,” and ultimately proves this to be true. Despite his imminent loss of his catch, he has not been demoralized and dreams of prides of lions while he fights the sharks who come for his marlin, which symbolize his pride and resilience. “After that he began to dream of the long yellow beach and he saw the first of the lions come down onto it in the early dark ... and he waited to see if there would be more lions and he was happy.” While he has lost his marlin, he has not been demoralized, and continues to dream of fishing as the story draws to a close.  
	A man can be defeated physically but not spiritually. Santiago is defeated physically. Even during his struggle with the marlin, when his hands are being shredded by rope, his spirit remains undefeated. Even though he is called “Salao” and is insulted and pitied behind his back, he “was not angry.” He refuses to allow the insults to bring him down, and persists in his dream.  Although he is physically destroyed, he persists spiritually. Thus, he is undefeated.
	Santiago is not destroyed at the end of the novel The Old Man and the Sea by Ernest Hemmingway. He is defeated physically, and suffers many injuries fighting the sharks. Although he finally loses his catch as the sharks eventually consume the flesh of his marlin, he is not spiritually defeated. He loses the catch that would have made him the awe of the village, but “smiled” and continued to “dream about the lions.” Santiago says that “A man can be destroyed but not defeated,” and ultimately proves this to be true.
