The novel One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest by Ken Kensey has been criticized for its treatment of race and gender, for multiple reasons. It can be argued that it portrays a battle between positive masculine and negative feminine qualities. The men lack the positive masculine qualities they need to fight back and gain control over their lives, while the overly masculine “ball cutters” such as Nurse Ratchet control them. Ratchet’s black assistants reinforce the stereotype of those of african descent as suited for servitude. One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest is a product of its time, the late 50s, and contains many themes that can be considered racist or sexist.
	In One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest, many themes are portrayed as opposing dichotomies A problematic example is the struggle of masculinity against aggressive feminine power. Characters such as Chief Bromden’s father are emasculated by masculine women, causing them to gradually lose their positive masculine qualities, such as their self sufficiency and their pride. This is best represented by Chief Bromden, who lost his tribe, land, and eventually his identity as his mother convinced his father to sell the rights to his land. This culminates in the institutionaliation of Chief Bromden, where he is emasculated by Nurse Ratched and the institutional authorities. Chief Bromden is a character who has been heavily emasculated. The only masculine feature that remains is his tall height and his strength, which he is afraid to use to free himself
	Nurse Ratched is the other side of the coin. Ratched is a dominant personality, a “buzzard, a ball-cutter,” who controls and emasculates the patients of the mental hospital how? Give an example (maybe something about Billy and how she is threatening him with telling his mom. She is a character with no redeeming qualities except her body, according to the patients and specifically McMurphy. It is obvious why this theme is politically problematic. Ratched is a powerful woman, but is portrayed as using that power sadistically/cruelly. The book also portrays masculine qualities in a positive light. The negative portrayal of reversed gender roles can be argued to be anti-feminist.
	Nurse Ratchet’s “black boys” can be thought of as racist stereotypes. All of the orderlies are of African American descent. They are portrayed as nameless, blind followers of Ratched, who obey her every order. They are illiterate, promoting the idea that those of African American descent are less intelligent than their white counterparts. The blind cruelty and obedience of the orderlies can be seen as an affirmation of the stereotype that blacks are suited to servitude. 
	The novel “One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest” is a product of its time, and contains many problematic themes, such as the portrayal of power and the portrayal of people of colour. The portrayal of weak characters fighting back against feminine power and the portrayal of nameless servants of African American descent are highly problematic. Although Keysey may not have intended to portray feminine power as a negative and those of African American descent as nameless servants, he inadvertently includes ideas that are controversial in today’s world. Although One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest includes many questionable and highly debatable themes, it is a product of its time and not inherently racist or sexist.
