Paradoxes and other logical fallacies are used effectively in order to satirize the absurdity of war. In Joseph Heller’s novel Catch-22, the titular paradox is one such example. Other paradoxes are also present in Catch-22 that highlight the absurdity of war. Paradoxes and illogical situations support Heller’s main theme that war is absurd, and that one must do anything to stay alive during war.

	Catch-22 is a situation one cannot escape due to conflicting rules. One such example is the situation that keeps Yossarian and many of his colleagues from being discharged: While anyone crazy is eligible to be excused from combat duty, “anyone who wants to get out of combat duty isn’t crazy” While “Orr was crazy and could be grounded,” “a concern for one’s own safety in the face of dangers that were real and immediate was the process of a rational mind” (33). If Orr were to be asked to be discharged he would immediately be considered sane. These two conflicting pieces of information highlight the absurdity of war and its meaningless bureaucracy. 

	Other logical paradoxes are also present in Catch-22. In Yossarian’s tent, there is Mudd, a “dead man” who had been killed in action before checking in and being processed as a member of the squadron. His belongings are in Yossarian’s tent, but no one can move them as Mudd has not yet officially arrived. Mudd cannot arrive as he has been killed. Mudd will never arrive and so his belongings are stuck in the tent. Catch-22 is an excuse used by the military police to justify kicking out the women living in Nately’s whore’s sister’s apartment. The police have the “right to do anything we can’t stop them from doing” (313). The MPs say that they are kicking the girls out because of Catch-22, but also cannot show them what Catch-22 is because the law Catch-22 forbids it. In a way, Yossarian is a paradox himself. He does the opposite of his job, yet his colleagues tolerate or even admire him.

	Heller’s use of paradox is in support of his central theme of the absurdity of war. Yossarian’s antics go unpunished. Despite incontrovertible evidence of his misdeeds, he is never dismissed in petulance. This suggests that in the fog of war, one is able to do whatever it takes to stay alive. The insanity of the meaningless bureaucracy justifies Yossarian’s antics. In an illogical situation, Yossarian must stick to the logical idea that he must do as much as he can to avoid death. 

	In Catch-22, the titualar paradox is used to satirize war and bureaucracies in general. Paradoxes and illogical situations illustrate the madness of war, and provide an excuse for Yossarian to attempt escape. The inescapable Catch-22 eventually is what drives Yossarian to desert at the end of the novel.