In the essay “Happiness is a glass half empty”, author Oliver Burkman argues that focusing on failure will lead to better results than focusing on success. Using examples such as the Museum of Failed Products, anecdotes, and science, Burkman argues that people should embrace failure, removing the need to stress about making the right choices, and learning to be a loser. 

Burkman uses the Museum of Failed Products to emphasize the frequency of failure. He writes:
““Most products fail.” According to some estimates, the failure rate is as high as 90%.” The frequency of failures is further emphasised when the origins of the museum are explained: “Its creator, a now-retired marketing man named Robert McMath, merely intended to accumulate a “reference library” of consumer products, not failures per se.” Using the Museum of Failed Products, Burkmen informes readers of the frequency of failure, creating the image that it is much more common than people think. 

Using science, Burkman reveals that by embracing and actively thinking of success, human motivation to succeed decreases. German psychologist Gabriele Oettngen’s experiments show that “spending time and energy focusing on how well things could go... has emerged, actually reduces most people’s motivation to achieve them.” By focusing on success, the brain subconsciously believes that it has already achieved the goals, reducing motivation to actually achieve the goals. 

A positive thinking culture can often blind people from failure. A system that treats failure like a plague, wherein failure is swept under the rug without a post-mortem cannot avoid the same problem in the future. Burkman writes: “Perhaps nobody wanted to contemplate the prospect of failure; perhaps someone did, but didn’t want to bring it up for discussion … Little energy will have been invested in discovering what went wrong; everyone involved will have conspired, perhaps without realising what they’re doing, never to speak of it again.” Positive thinking culture leads to failure becoming an unacceptable outcome.

In conclusion, Burkman’s essay “Happiness is a glass half empty” uses the Museum of Failed Products, science, and anecdotes to inform the reader about the dangers of a solely-positive thinking culture. By emphasizing the frequency of failure, using science to explain why, and using anecdotes, Happiness is a Glass Half Empty convincingly proves the superiority of pessimism.   
         
