Steven Pinker’s “A History of Violence: Edge Master Class 2011” lecture serves the purpose of arguing that violence has been in a period of decline for millennia, and that we are living in the most peaceful period in human history. Pinker presents his argument, provides six periods in which violence declined in chronological order along with possible causes, and then correlates these declines with the rise of several social movements. He ends his lecture with a question-answer period. He fulfills his purpose well, as his connectives and transitions are smooth and with proper variety and vocabulary is varied and not dry or repetitive.  Pinker makes significant use of anecdote, analogy, and statistics to strengthen his argument.
	Steven Pinker begins by outlining his argument, that “violence has been in decline over long stretches of time, and we may be living in the most peaceful time in our species' existence.” He debunks Rousseau's conclusion that "Nothing could be more gentle than man in his primitive state," and argues for Hobb’s argument that "the life of man is solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short." He delineates six periods in which violence declined in human history: firstly, the “Pacification Proccess,” with the emergence of centralized government; the “Civilizing Proccess,” with the abolition of judicial torture; the “abolition of the death penalty in Europe”, and the “Aboliton of Slavery.” Pinker then correlates this decrease in violence with several social movements, such as abolitionism, the rise of democracies, and feminism, concluding ithat " He ends his lecture with a question-answer period and “calls for a rehabilitation of a concept of modernity and progress, and for a sense of gratitude for the institutions of civilization and enlightenment that have made it possible.”
	He presents his argument well. His connectives and transitions are seamless. He uses vocabulary such as This is evidenced and? To what end?
	Pinker makes significant use of devices such as anecdote, analogy, and statistics to strengthen his argument. He strengthens nearly every statement he makes with a statistic, such as one for the sudden drop of homicide in Europe, homicides in England, and genocides in the 20th century, for a total of 42 graphs. He provides statistics from homicide and judicial torture, all the way to child spanking and animal cruelty. Pinker provides a multitude of analogies to assist the reader. In informing the reader of what mindsets promote violence, he says, “There are studies showing that violence is more common when people are confined to one pecking order… if I do something stupid when I'm driving, and someone gives me the finger and calls me an asshole, it's not the end of the world: I think to myself, I’m a tenured professor at Harvard.”
	Pinker argues that violence has been in decline _______, and the 20th century was not the most violent century in history. He begins by outlining his argument, that “violence has been in decline over long stretches of time, and [that] we may be living in the most peaceful time in our species' existence,” thereby debunking Rousseau and arguing for Hobbs. Pinker presents his argument well. His connectives and transitions are seamless. Pinker makes significant use of devices such as anecdote, analogy, and statistics to strengthen his argument,. Using a variety of strategies, a strong structure, and flawless transitions, Pinker argues that the 20th century is the most peaceful in human history, concluding with “a sense of gratitude for the institutions of civilization and enlightenment that have made it possible.”
