Sports are a waste of time. Sports are extremely dangerous, develop dangerous attitudes of tribalism, and even support human rights abuse. First, sports will cause physical disorders. Many sports, such as American football, will cause neurodegenerative disease. Sports cause dangerous attitudes of tribalism. There have been incidents of sports fans committing property damage. Finally, sports will incite or inflame civil unrest, as proved by the Nika Revolt and Formula 1 in Bahrain. Sports are a waste of time, and should be discouraged. In order to protect our children, we should ban sports.

Sports can and will cause dangerous injuries. Neurological damage is common. Over 253 high school players and 34 college players have suffered permanent injuries to their spinal cord from playing football, and over 84% of football players suffer CTE, a traumatic brain disorder caused by impacts to the head. By participating in team sports, players are exposed to pandemics. All 20 members of an American high school sports team tested positive for Coronavirus on December 7. With the peer pressure often associated with team sports, the likelihood of injuries increases. Due to the highly social nature of team sports, fights have been known to erupt between rival hockey teams.  Sports should be banned as they have been known to cause physical harm such as neurodegenerative disease.

The social aspect of team sports causes risk. Players may be pressured into doing things they often would not have done. Hazing and drug use have been known to occur within college sports teams. Sports players may pressure themselves to perform outside of their physical ability, causing injuries. The boxer Mike Towell succumbed to brain bleed in the finals of a boxing competition, due to his desire to “fight to the end.” The tribalism of competitive sport promotes a dangerous “us versus them” mentality in fans. The Nika Revolt of 532 was a revolt instigated between the two largest chariot teams in Byzantium, the “Blues” and the “Greens.” The riots between fans of both chariot teams eventually ignited deeply embedded civil unrest and an attempt to overthrow the emperor. The social aspect of sport is inherently dangerous to not only players but also fans.

The implications of sport may even extend to the audience. An example can be found in Formula One. Recently, the sport was plunged into controversy for proposing a race in Saudi Arabia, a country well known for human rights abuses, and reigniting controversy over races in countries with a record of human rights abuses like Russia, China, USA, Bahrain, and most recently, Saudi Arabia. By racing in these countries, Formula One Management (FOM) is helping to cover up these human rights abuses with the practice of Sportswashing. For example, in 2012, Formula One held a race in Bahrain even though just outside the race track there were mass protests relating to the Arab Spring. With the slogan of the race being “Unified: One nation in celebration”, the Formula One race created the image that all was well inside the country. 

Sports are inherently dangerous, and should be banned. Sports will cause dangerous physical injuries, such as brain injuries and spreading diseases. Sports also generates tribalism, which may inflame social issues or cause players to succumb to peer pressure. Sports may even incite dangerous social unrest, such as the protests incited by Formula 1’s 2012 Bahrain Grand Prix. In order to protect the stability of our society, prevent the youth from physical injury, and discourage dangerous activities such as doping and hazing, competitive sport should be banned.
