The novel Into the Wild depicts the appeal of the wilderness many adventure seekers feel. McCandless, an archetypical adventure seeker, aimed to create an identity of “Alexander Supertramp,” and sought to construct a personal narrative of himself traveling across America with no material possessions. He is driven by a distrust for authority, a love for freedom, and a dangerously romanticized view of nature. McCandless’s dangerous overconfidence results in his eventual death.
	Chris McCandless is an archetypical adventure seeker. His desire to live with nature is due to his distrust of authority, such as his parents, as well as a love for freedom, and an idealized view of nature. Motivated by writers such as Jack London, Tolstoy, and Roseau, he sought to flee from responsibility and his parents, by donating or selling his possessions and moving in a world untainted by modern society: the Alaskan wilderness. He idealized the idea of being a “tramp,” a vagrant, and possessed dangerous overconfidence. He throws away his watch, saying that “I don’t want to know what day it is or where I am. None of that matters.” Adventure seekers seem to distrust authority, emphasise personal freedom, and seem to desire to escape from society.
	Many adventure seekers seek to create an identity and personal narrative. McCandless assumed the identity of “Alexander Supertramp” and planned to travel across the United States while “invent[ing] an utterly new life for himself” and becoming “a master of his own destiny.” This was a result of the romantic culture American society has constructed around nature, a culture that drove many into the bleak and desolate wasteland of Alaska. The character of Gallien has met many “crackpots from the lower forty-eight who come north to live out ill-considered Jack London fantasies,” but discover that “the bush is an unforgiving place, however, that cares nothing for hope or longing.” McCandless and many others discovered this too late to survive.
	Romanticization of nature may lead to not only the death of the occasional lunatic, but it may also lead to serious societal misdemeanors such as terrorism, as was the case of MIT proffessor Ted Kaczynski. Like McCandless, he possessed a distrust of authority. Like McCandless, he lived an ascetic life in nature away from others and sought “to live independent of modern technology.” Like McCandeless, he was intelligent, and succeeded academically. Both McCandless and Kaczynski achieved high scores in the academic world. Both McCandless and Chris McCandless exist as a warning against the romanticization of nature.
	Into the Wild depicts the appeal of the wilderness for adventure seekers: A lack of authority, complete freedom, and dangerously romanticized view of nature. The fate of Chriss McCandeless serves as a warning to those who romanticize nature.
