Suicide has become an increasing problem in the past two decades. Suicide rates have climbed dramatically since the early 2000s, a study by the CDC shows. Although teenage suicides make up a relatively tiny proportion of suicides, it is still important to find out the factors involved. Suicide victims often have a mental illness, a family history of suicide, have a history of substance abuse, or have shown impulsive or aggressive behaviour. The common causes of suicide include depression or trauma after a traumatic event, cyber or in-person bullying, or social rejection and isolation.

The background of suicide victims often share similar characteristics. They may suffer from a mental illness, such as anxiety, social anxiety, or depression. Other psychiatric illnesses such as mood disorders, eating disorders, or schizophrenia may also put one at greater risk. The effect of alcohol or other drugs also cannot be ignored; up to one in three suicide victims have had a history of substance abuse. Impulsive or aggressive teens may also be put at a higher risk due to the fact that they may lash out in an unsafe manner towards themselves or others if not given a safe outlet. Finally, many adolescent teens who

Common causes are multifaceted and varied. A common cause is the aforementioned mental or physiatric illnesses. A schizophrenic person may have audiovisual hallucinations that drive them towards suicide even though they themselves may not seek it. Dysphoria, mood disorders, or eating disorders may cause an adolescent to have low self-esteem. Clinical depression is another factor. Cyberbullying and regular bullying may result in suicidal thoughts. Teens who have been cyberbullied are up to three times more likely to attempt suicide, a study by the NIH reveals.

Methods of addressing these factors exist. Better access to therapy and mental health professionals may mitigate the risk factor of teens with mental or physiatric illness. “Suicide is a common risk factor that pertains to nearly all CODs and particularly those involving addiction and MDD, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, PTSD, or PDs,” the study “Substance Use Disorder Treatment for People With Co-Occurring Disorders, (Yuodelis-Flores & Ries, 2015)“ says.  Awareness surrounding the effects of controlled substances may mitigate the risk of many such disorders. Factors leading up to cyberbullying should also be researched and resolved.

In conclusion, the factors and causes involved in suicide are wide, multifaced, and complicated and the topic of suicide cannot be adequately given attention to an essay of 300 words. Victims often suffer from a variety of problems. Factors can range from dysphoria to depression to social isolation to cyberbullying.

