
The cultivation, consumption, cultural usage, and trade of spirits and coffee has had significant impacts on society that were both positive and negative. Spirits served as medicine, then a global tool for bartering. Regulation on rum was an important step in the road to the American war of independence, and the whisky rebellion was a key moment in the history of the United States. The development of Coffee led to the spread of coffee houses, key locations of scientific discourse during the Scientific Revolution and the Enlightenment. Overall, the development of spirits and coffee was a positive rather than negative invention.
	Spirits were used as anything from medicine to currency. Distillation was first used as medicine. Heavily distilled wine was known as Aqua Vitae, and was initially thought to be a miracle cure, a “beverage destined to revive the energies of modern decrepitude.” (73) It was thought to cure everything from toothache, blindness, speech defect, paralysis, to the plague. However, it eventually shifted from medicinenal to recreational use. When Rum was refined from the by-products of the sugar making process, it became used as payment for slaves, medicine for scurvy, and something to barter with. Rum had an unfortunate use of a form of social control over slaves, who harvested the sugar cane the Rum was refined out of. Rum, due to it’s high alcohol content, was excellent for bartering with far-off indigenous peoples in South and Central America. As a result, it became a tool of imperialism and exploitation.

	Before the American war of independence, the regulation of rum was a source of ire for the American colonists. As British producers of rum lost out to New England distillers, they demanded government intervention. Soon, the 1733 Molasses Act was passed. It levied a prohibitive six pence per gallon on molasses imported into what would be the United States, the source of rum. This levy added to the growing discontent of the colonists that eventually came to a boil with the American war of independence. The Whiskey rebellion of 1794 was a key moment in early America - the use of Federal militias to put down the rebelling brewers was one of the first demonstrations of Federal power.

The development of Coffee led to the spread of coffee houses, key locations of scientific discourse during the Scientific Revolution. The first coffee houses opened in Oxford by a Lebanese man by the name of Jacob. They quickly became a location of scientific discourse between intellectuals, and they spread across Europe with the Scientific Revolution. The work Philosophiae naturalis principia mathematica (Mathematical principles of natural philosophy), a great work on the theory of gravity by Issac Newton, was written in a coffeehouse. It is clear that coffee, as a neural stimulant, played a key role in the growth of science and philosophy

	The cultivation, consumption, cultural usage, and trade of spirits and coffee has had significant impacts on society that were both positive and negative, but their developments were mostly positive overall. Although spirits were a tool of imperialism as they were used to barter for slaves and with indegenous peoples who had not yet been exposed to alcohol, spirits were a factor in the American war of independence and coffeehouses were a key location for intellectual discussion during the Scientific Revolution.

	

