The life that the Lambert children lead up to Chapter 5 is worse than the life they lead as kids, but it is also in many ways better. The family initially appears fairly normal in Chapter 1, but their dysfunctionality is gradually revealed. While Alfred was initially a brilliant railroad engineer for Midland Atlantic, he eventually became a Parkinson's-riddled retiree with a deteriorating body. However, it is ironic that - as Alfred’s mental condition deteriorates - the family is actually brought closer, which shows that they are antithetical to the prototypical ‘American family’. 

Chapter 1 informs the reader of the deteriorating relationship of Enid and Alfred due to Alfred’s declining mental state. The children are estranged from their parents in part due to Alfred’s disciplinarian parenting style, a long shot from the traditional American nuclear family.  Alfred seems to suffer from a combination of early-onset dementia, “the audiologist had said that he was mildly impaired,” (7) and early-onset Alzheimer’s. They are departing for a Norweigan Cruise, but Alfred cannot seem to comprehend that they are departing Saturday and not today. 	Their relationship is strained, but outwardly appears normal.

Alfred’s life was undoubtedly better in the past than now. Originally, “not only
had he worked long hours at the Midland Pacific Railroad and read aloud to his children and done the yard work and home maintenance and processed a nightly briefcase full of executive paper but had also found time to operate a serious metallurgical laboratory in the family basement, staying up past midnight to subject strange alloys to electrical and chemical stresses.” Alfred was originally a diligent worker, a caring father, and a mentally sharp metallurgist. However, after losing his job at Midland Pacific, he becomes more disciplinarian and less lucid. In the present day, he is a deteriorating body and mind.

Denise seems to be the only one in the family who seems to be better off as an adult than as a child. Of the three siblings, she seems to be the most well-adjusted and capable. Although she has doubts about her sexuality, her life as a well-off and middle class cook is undoubtedly better than in a potentially abusive household under a mentally decaying father.  Ironically, as Denise is secretly a lesbian, she is the farthest off of the many family members from the idea of the American nuclear family, and yet she is the most stable and well-adjusted. 

The life the family leads is in many ways worse in the present day, but it is in some ways better. Enid and Alfred are at odds with each other, in part due to the fact that both Alfred’s mind and body are rotting away. The family is estranged from each other. While Alfred used to be a diligent railroad engineer, he is fired from his job and his mental state takes a turn for the worst. Denise is the only one who’s life seemed to improve as she is now a rather well-off middle class cook. Ironically, as Denise is secretly a lesbian, she is the farthest off of the many family members from the idea of the American nuclear family, yet he is the most well-adjusted of the five.
