In the 1998 book Disgrace by J.M Coetzee, violence and oppression are common themes that are perpetrated by both the protagonist and the antagonists. Lurie and his daughter are attacked by 3 black men, who under aparthied-era South African policy,and therefore would have been oppressed. On the other side, however, Lurie oppresses the black minority when he hires a private detective agency to obtain private information on a prostitute. The lack of a clear line between the oppression of the protagonists and antagonists characterizes much of Disgrace. 

Lurie uses his authority as a professor and as a white man in Apartheid era South Africa to violate the privacy of a prostitute. Finding himself attracted to a prostitute, he hires a private detective to find her personal information. Coetzee writes: “Instead, he pays a detective agency to track her down. Within days he has her real name, her address, her telephone number.” (Chapter 1 p7) As the system of Apartheid was catered towards the white minority at the expense of the black majority, Lurie was able to hire a private detective without trouble, allowing him to oppress a black woman.

Using his authority as a professor, Lurie is able to coerceMalaine into an inappropriate sexual relationship, which is a form of oppression. Malaine is unable to decline Lurie’s offer for a drink due to his role as an authority figure. “`I live just nearby. Can I invite you in for a drink?’” (Chapter 2 p11)  With his position as an authority figure, Lurie oppresses one of his students into an inappropriate sexual relationship. 

Violence is used by once-oppressed peoples to oppress their oppressors. Lurie is robbed, lit on fire, and his daughter is raped by three black youths. When one of the youths turns out to be Petrus’s cousin, Lurie’s daughter Lucy  is forced to marry Pollux. Petrus suggests:  “‘He will marry her,’ he says at last. ‘He will marry Lucy, only he is too young, too young to be marry. He is a child still.’” (chapter 22 p 179)  While Lucy doesn't want to marry, Petrus explains: ‘But here’, says Petrus, ‘it is dangerous, too dangerous. A woman must be marry.’ (chapter 22, p180) A member of the white minority is oppressed into marriage, by a man who sexually assaulted her, which is an ironic and tragic form of oppression.   


In conclusion, violence and oppression are a major theme in Disgrace. The use of oppression on both sides by the protagonists and antagonists, creates a very blurred line.

