In Kendrick Lamar’s song “i”, Lamar uses symbols, repetitions, and memory to guide youth in transcending the violent atmosphere of his hometown, Compton. His song “i” heavily promotes self-improvement, as well as rejecting pessimism. He uses vivid imagery of gang violence both as a symbol of self-hatred and to discourage others against this lifestyle. The repetition of the phrase “I love myself” is an explicit reaffirmation of his message of self-love. Finally, his use of memory and allusions to other texts spread the sentiment of hope for youth in Compton to follow his footsteps in transcending the gang violence of Compton. 

Lamar uses symbolism to promote the idea of rejecting pessimism and promoting a positive self-image. His imagery of gang violence not only serves as a scathing critique of gang life but also serves as an allegory of a poor self-image. An overly critical internal monologue is like “a war outside and a bomb in the street/” and having “and a gun in the hood” to fight off “a mob of police.” He then utilizes hopeful imagery to show the listener that there is hope, both for those with depression and for Compton. “Dreams of reality's peace/ Blow steam in the face of the beast/ The sky could fall down, the wind could cry now/ The strong in me, I still smile,” he says. Using imagery and symbolism, Lamar promotes a message of self-improvement hope for Compton.

Repetition is also used by Lamar to emphasize this message of a positive self-image in the face of adversity. The constant repetition of “I love myself” throughout his song emphasizes his escape from his violent background, as well as emphasizes his message of self-empowerment. The most obvious repetition is of “I love myself,” a direct endorsement of self-love. This endorsement reinforces the message he creates using symbolism.

Memory is also used by Lamar to memorize the violence in Compton. <example> <example> Memory is the idea that all texts exist in a continuum; Lamar has created many connections to other texts and real-world events in order to spread the sentiment of hope for Compton.

Lamar uses repetition, symbolism, and memory to both promote a message of self-love and of hope for his hometown Compton. His vivid depiction of gang violence serves as both a symbol of self-hatred and a promotion of a message of peace. He reinforces this idea by repeating his message, “I love myself.” He finally utilizes memory, the idea that all text is interconnected, to spread hope to other youth in transcending the marginalization and violent atmosphere of his hometown Compton.
