The short stories “Araby” and A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man by James Joyce both show key moments in the coming of age of a young man in Dublin. “Araby” shows the main character discovering that his attraction to his friend's sister is merely because of her exotic fetures and his own idealised view of the world. A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man on the other hand shows the slow progression of Stephen Dadalus as an artist. The growth of the two young men are very different and share almost nothing in common. 

First, “Araby” depicts the coming of age story of a young boy who falls in love with a friend’s sister because of her exotic “brown figure” contrasting against the drab and boring surroundings of the boy’s life in Dublin. After going to the local bazaar to buy a gift for her, expecting to see exotic goods from the east, he is disappointed after only seeing English goods. “Gazing up into the darkness I saw myself as a creature driven and derided by vanity; and my eyes burned with anguish and anger.” (p5) Realising that he will be just as disappointed with the girl as he is with the bazaar, he comes to a realization that he merely wants to experience something new. Araby’s coming of age comes with disappointment, exposing his want for change. 

Second, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man shows the journey of Stephen Dedalus as he becomes a man, illustrated by his growth as an artist. Starting as a boy in a private school, he goes through multiple stages, first engaging in debauchery: ““He wanted to sin with another of his kind, to force another being to sin with him and to exult with her in sin.” (67)”, Dedalus then becomes a religious fanatic after hearing a sermon by Father Arnell. “He flung the blankets from him madly to free his face and neck. That was his hell. God had allowed him to see the hell reserved for his sins: stinking, bestial, malignant, a hell of lecherous goatish fiends. For him! For him!”(91) Dadulaus eventually has an epiphany when he comes to a balance between his life and religion after seeing a girl on a beach. He exclaims: “—Heavenly God! cried Stephen’s soul, in an outburst of profane joy.” (113) Dadalus’s coming of age as an artist comes when he learns to balance his artistic needs with his religion. Daedalus’s coming of age exposes the beauty of the world around him. 

Finally, Dadulus and Araby’s coming of age are very different from each other. While Araby comes of age realising the boredom of his life, Daedalus’s epiphany consists of him realizing how beautiful the world around him is. In addition, the growth that they experience is also different. Araby realises his boredom and dreams of change, while Dadulus experiences his growth as an artist. The two men’s coming of age share almost no similarities. 

In conclusion, the two mens growth and coming of age are very different. While Araby releases his boredom and aspirations to change, Daedalus does so by realising the beauty around him, and thus striking a balance between his art and his religion. 
- meeting of imagination and reality

In the short story Araby by James Joyce, the meeting of imagination and reality is a central theme. The main character’s imagination of a bazaar filled with exotic goods from the middle east is shattered by reality when he finds out that they are all products from England, thus making him realize the boredom of his life, as well as reveals his idealised view of the middle east, and the girl. “Gazing up into the darkness I saw myself as a creature driven and derided by vanity; and my eyes burned with anguish and anger.” (p5). The meeting of imagination and reality causes Araby to realise the boredom of his life. 

