In the United States, suicide is the second-highest cause of death for teenagers. In 2019 for example,  2600 teenagers were among the more than 47000 victims of suicide.  While suicide is a complicated issue that should not be summarised in a short essay, it is still an important issue that can be looked at.

Suicide victims often have a mental illness or psychiatric diagnosis, family history of suicide and/or exposure to suicide.  A common reason for suicide is after suffering a traumatic event, such as substance abuse, and physical or sexual abuse. Another factor of suicide for people between the age of 10 -19 is impulsivity or aggressive behaviour, and a lack of social skills or social isolation. Other reasons may include physical illness and disruptions in the family, such as a divorce or legal issues. Victims of suicide often suffer a combination of these factors.

The rate of suicide among teenagers can be reduced if the reasons leading to suicide can be eliminated or reduced.  For example, a common occurrence when someone commits suicide is the formation of a suicide cluster, where a person committing suicide serves as a trigger which causes more suicides in the area around the victim. By addressing some of the issues that cause suicide, the suicide cluster can be eliminated and the overall number so suicides can be reduced. 

Methods of addressing the factors which often lead to suicide can be broad. For example, support for those with previous histories of physical and sexual abuse or with mental illness can be improved by the state subsidizing psychiatrists and by destigmatizing the conversation around suicide. For instance, Catholicism considers suicide to be a grave sin, which can stifle conversations around suicide and deter people from seeking help.  Another factor that can be addressed is social isolation, something that has been increasing during the pandemic. Schools can implement more in-person events and promote social interaction. By implementing a few measures, the number of suicides can be dramatically reduced. 

In conclusion, suicide is a complicated issue that cannot be adequately covered in a short essay. Victims of suicide often suffer from a combination of issues, which should be properly addressed to reduce the number of victims of suicide. In short, more resources should be put into the adequate treatment of people who have previously suffered traumatic events or who suffer from mental or psychiatric disorders, and social interaction should be encouraged to reduce social isolation. 
 









