
Pi’s journaling is a commentary on the need for communication. Without human interaction, humans will eventually lose the will to live. His journal gives him a chance to communicate his emotion, and keep a clear mind. The journal is not a full substitute for human communication. He loses the will to live even with the journal, which is only solved by the short meeting with the frenchman. The diary is important to him, and a combination of starvation and running out of ink - which means no more journaling -  causes him to lose the will to live.
	Pi’s diary describes his daily activities, and served many other functions. Journaling was not only a “restful activity” for him, it also allowed him to forget”
even the very notion of time.” 
	Pi’s diary not only chronicles his daily activities, it also provides a way for him to communicate his emotions. It allowed for him to keep a clear mind, as evidenced by the fact that he sunk into a deep depression after running out of ink. The last entry in his journal is “Today I die. I will die today. I die.” Without the diary to keep his mind clear, he becomes depressed. This depression, one could argue, leads him to hallucinatory behaviour. He hallucinates interactions, both with the Frenchman, and with Richard Parker. This demonstrates that, at a base level, the thing that all humans need is companionship and interaction.  The diary, though it may help him pass the time, is not a full substitute for human interaction.
	Pi’s depression is cured suddenly by the meeting with the frenchman. After a short conversation, the first conversation he had in months, he becomes motivated to continue to survive. Although Pi is disgusted by the Frenchman, and the result of the altercation is the violent death of the Frenchman, Pi is roused by the incident. Rather than resign to his fate, he scavenges the Frenchman’s lifeboat for food, and catches a fish.
	Pi’s journal says something about the human need for communication. It proves that without communication, humans will go insane. A combination of a lack of paper for his journal and starvation caused Pi to believe that he will die. However, after meeting the Frenchman, he snaps out of it and survives. Without the journal or Richard Parker, Pi “would die of hopelessness.”